[case 1]
Sessions Court, Manjeri is the appellant. He was convicted as per
the impugned judgment for an offence punishable under Section
376 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC). He was sentenced to
undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of seven years and to
pay a fine of Rs. 10, 000/-. 2. The prosecution was initiated with the following allegations: At about 10. 00 p. m. on 08. 09. 2008 the accused committed rape on his daughter, PW1, aged 13 years at the house of his elder brother situated at Edapatta. He repeated committing rape on her at their house having door No. III/35 of Ponmala panchayat. It recurred till the last week of February 2009. Consequently, PW1 became pregnant and delivered a girl child at the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode on 03. 05. 2009. 3. On the appellant denying the charge, the prosecution has examined PWs. 1 to 7 and proved Exts. P1 to P14. MOs. 1 to 4 were identified. When questioned under Section 313(1)(b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Code), the appellant denied the incriminating circumstances. He filed a statement setting out his defence. He stated that he was unaware about the pregnancy of the victim, even when she was taken to the Medical College Hospital. He alleged that Mujeeb, son of PW5 was responsible for the pregnancy of PW1 and in order to save him, the appellant was implicated by PW1 under the persuasion of her mother, PW5. No evidence except Ext. D1, a contradiction in the former statement of PW1, was let in. 4. The trial court, after analysing the evidence in detail, concluded that PW1 was a reliable witness and her evidence coupled with the oral testimonies of PW4, the Doctor and PW5, the mother, proved the guilt of the appellant beyond doubt. The said finding and the reasons thereof are assailed in this appeal filed under Section 374(2) of the Code. 5. Heard the learned counsel for the appellant and the learned Senior Public Prosecutor. 6. PW1 is the victim. She was aged 13 years at the time of occurrence. The appellant is her father and PW5 is her mother. PW1 was residing along with her siblings, the appellant and her mother (PW5). Her brother, Mujeed was born to PW5 in her first marriage. In her second wedlock of PW5 with the appellant, PW1 and her younger sister were born. All of them were residing together at their house at Ponmala. 7. The first incident of rape occurred at the house of the appellant's elder brother at Edapatta. Subsequently, on a few occasions she was subjected to sexual abuse by the appellant at their house at Ponmala. She has narrated about such incidents. The appellant took PW1 and her younger sister to the house of his elder brother, stating that his younger brother was coming home from abroad. On that day his elder brother was absent and his sister-in-law alone was there. 8. PW1 deposed that she and her sister slept in a room. After her sister went asleep, the appellant subjected her to sexual intercourse despite her residence. She deposed further that on subsequent occasions while they were at their house at Ponmala, she was subjected to sexual intercourse by the appellant on a few occasions during Ramadan season. 9. PW1 got impregnated. On noticing her swollen abdomen, PW5 along with the appellant took PW1 to a Doctor at Ponmala who noticed her to be pregnant, and instructed to take her to the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. After examination, PW4, a professor in Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the Medical College, confirmed pregnancy. Age of the fetus was found to be above six months. Owing to her tender age, PW1 was retained in that hospital and a child was delivered by her. 10. PW5 deposed that she along with the appellant took PW1 on 09. 03. 2009 to the Doctor on noticing her abdominal distension. After confirmation of the pregnancy by the Doctor, PW1 told that the appellant was responsible. It is her further version that the appellant suggested to take PW1 to some hospitals and to do the necessary. Accordingly, PW1 was taken to the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. 11. PW4 was the Professor in Obstetrics and Gynecology at the Government Medical College, Kozhikode. She deposed that on 11. 03. 2009 she examined PW1 and at that time PW1 was carrying a fetus of 26 weeks of age. She was told by PW1 that her father was responsible for the pregnancy. PW4 proceeded to depose that being a case of teenage pregnancy, PW1 was retained in the hospital, and she gave birth to a child on 30. 05. 2009. She was discharged from the hospital on 03. 06. 2009. Ext. P5 is the certificate issued by PW4. 12. The F. I. statement, Ext. P1 was recorded from PW1 on 13. 03. 2009. Based on Ext. P1, the crime was registered. Ext. P6 is the FIR. PW7, Circle inspector of Police has conducted the investigation and laid the charge. A potency test of the appellant was conducted by PW3 and the certificate in that regard is Ext. P3. In the opinion of PW3, there was nothing to suggest that the appellant was incapable of doing sexual acts. 13. The proof or not of the charge against the appellant depends on the reliability of PW1. It was on 09. 03. 2009 she was examined by the Doctor and confirmed the pregnancy. On 11. 03. 2009 she was examined by PW4 at the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. On 13. 03. 2009 she gave Ext. P1 statement. Going by the oral evidence, immediately on revealing the pregnancy, PW1 told PW5 that the appellant was responsible. PW1 claimed to have stated that fact to the Doctor at Orchid Hospital, Malappuram, where she was scanned and examined. That Doctor was not examined. But PW4, who examined PW1 on 11. 03. 2009 stated in court that PW1 revealed the appellant as the person responsible and that version repeated in Ext. P1 that was given on 13. 03. 2009. Thus, from the very beginning, the version of PW1 regarding the person responsible for her pregnancy has been consistent. 14. The learned counsel would submit that PW1 accused the appellant in order to save Mujeeb, the son of PW5 in her first marriage. Various circumstances have been pointed out by the learned counsel for the appellant and it is submitted that since the only evidence available to implicate the appellant with the crime is the oral testimony of PW1, any doubt appeared in her evidence has to go in favour of the appellant. It is submitted, only if PW1 can be termed as a witness of sterling quality, there can be conviction. In that regard, the learned counsel placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Christopher v. State of Kerala [2024 KHC 7137] and a line of decisions referred to therein. 15. Inconsistencies in the evidence of PW1 highlighted by the learned counsel for the appellant are essentially a few improbabilities. Regarding the first incident, the narration by PW1 was that while sleeping along with her younger sister it occurred. That and the way in which she was allegedly abused are said to be improbable. The incidents allegedly occurred at their house at Ponmala were in the wee hours during Ramzan days. All were sleeping together. PW5 used to go to the kitchen at or around 4. 00 p. m. It was at that time PW1 was sexually misused. PW1 admitted her interaction with Mujeeb which was to the dislike of the appellant. He even warned PW5 against it. Although it was suggested that PW1 lied along with Mujeeb and she was therefore scolded by the appellant, it was denied by her. 16. It appears from the evidence that the appellant did not like PW1 interacting with Mujeeb closely. Along with that the version of PW5 to the effect that it was Mujeeb and not the appellant who was looking after the house hold affairs is highlighted. Those matters were relied in support of the defence plea that in order to save Mujeeb, the appellant was falsely implicated. Yet another aspect pointed out is that no scientific test like DNA examination was conducted and it was with an oblique motive of screening Mujeeb from the prosecution. 17. The aforementioned contentions are strongly refuted by the learned Public Prosecutor. It is submitted that the evidence of PW1 is blemish free. She being the daughter, it cannot be expected that she falsely implicate the appellant. Except suggestions by the appellant, there is no evidence or circumstance to even remotely probabilise the defence plea. Accordingly, the learned Senior Public Prosecutor would submit that the findings of the trial court are quite convincing and devoid of any infirmity. 18. Decisions of the Apex Court which dealt with the question concerning reliability of the victim of a sexual offence have been encapsulated by a Division Bench of this Court in the judgment in Christopher (supra). The relevant part of that judgment is extracted below:

[case 2]
Sessions Court, Manjeri is the appellant. He was convicted as per
the impugned judgment for an offence punishable under Section
376 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC). He was sentenced to
undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of seven years and to
pay a fine of Rs. 10, 000/-. 2. The prosecution was initiated with the following allegations: At about 10. 00 p. m. on 08. 09. 2008 the accused committed rape on his daughter, PW1, aged 13 years at the house of his elder brother situated at Edapatta. He repeated committing rape on her at their house having door No. III/35 of Ponmala panchayat. It recurred till the last week of February 2009. Consequently, PW1 became pregnant and delivered a girl child at the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode on 03. 05. 2009. 3. On the appellant denying the charge, the prosecution has examined PWs. 1 to 7 and proved Exts. P1 to P14. MOs. 1 to 4 were identified. When questioned under Section 313(1)(b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Code), the appellant denied the incriminating circumstances. He filed a statement setting out his defence. He stated that he was unaware about the pregnancy of the victim, even when she was taken to the Medical College Hospital. He alleged that Mujeeb, son of PW5 was responsible for the pregnancy of PW1 and in order to save him, the appellant was implicated by PW1 under the persuasion of her mother, PW5. No evidence except Ext. D1, a contradiction in the former statement of PW1, was let in. 4. The trial court, after analysing the evidence in detail, concluded that PW1 was a reliable witness and her evidence coupled with the oral testimonies of PW4, the Doctor and PW5, the mother, proved the guilt of the appellant beyond doubt. The said finding and the reasons thereof are assailed in this appeal filed under Section 374(2) of the Code. 5. Heard the learned counsel for the appellant and the learned Senior Public Prosecutor. 6. PW1 is the victim. She was aged 13 years at the time of occurrence. The appellant is her father and PW5 is her mother. PW1 was residing along with her siblings, the appellant and her mother (PW5). Her brother, Mujeed was born to PW5 in her first marriage. In her second wedlock of PW5 with the appellant, PW1 and her younger sister were born. All of them were residing together at their house at Ponmala. 7. The first incident of rape occurred at the house of the appellant's elder brother at Edapatta. Subsequently, on a few occasions she was subjected to sexual abuse by the appellant at their house at Ponmala. She has narrated about such incidents. The appellant took PW1 and her younger sister to the house of his elder brother, stating that his younger brother was coming home from abroad. On that day his elder brother was absent and his sister-in-law alone was there. 8. PW1 deposed that she and her sister slept in a room. After her sister went asleep, the appellant subjected her to sexual intercourse despite her residence. She deposed further that on subsequent occasions while they were at their house at Ponmala, she was subjected to sexual intercourse by the appellant on a few occasions during Ramadan season. 9. PW1 got impregnated. On noticing her swollen abdomen, PW5 along with the appellant took PW1 to a Doctor at Ponmala who noticed her to be pregnant, and instructed to take her to the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. After examination, PW4, a professor in Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the Medical College, confirmed pregnancy. Age of the fetus was found to be above six months. Owing to her tender age, PW1 was retained in that hospital and a child was delivered by her. 10. PW5 deposed that she along with the appellant took PW1 on 09. 03. 2009 to the Doctor on noticing her abdominal distension. After confirmation of the pregnancy by the Doctor, PW1 told that the appellant was responsible. It is her further version that the appellant suggested to take PW1 to some hospitals and to do the necessary. Accordingly, PW1 was taken to the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. 11. PW4 was the Professor in Obstetrics and Gynecology at the Government Medical College, Kozhikode. She deposed that on 11. 03. 2009 she examined PW1 and at that time PW1 was carrying a fetus of 26 weeks of age. She was told by PW1 that her father was responsible for the pregnancy. PW4 proceeded to depose that being a case of teenage pregnancy, PW1 was retained in the hospital, and she gave birth to a child on 30. 05. 2009. She was discharged from the hospital on 03. 06. 2009. Ext. P5 is the certificate issued by PW4. 12. The F. I. statement, Ext. P1 was recorded from PW1 on 13. 03. 2009. Based on Ext. P1, the crime was registered. Ext. P6 is the FIR. PW7, Circle inspector of Police has conducted the investigation and laid the charge. A potency test of the appellant was conducted by PW3 and the certificate in that regard is Ext. P3. In the opinion of PW3, there was nothing to suggest that the appellant was incapable of doing sexual acts. 13. The proof or not of the charge against the appellant depends on the reliability of PW1. It was on 09. 03. 2009 she was examined by the Doctor and confirmed the pregnancy. On 11. 03. 2009 she was examined by PW4 at the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. On 13. 03. 2009 she gave Ext. P1 statement. Going by the oral evidence, immediately on revealing the pregnancy, PW1 told PW5 that the appellant was responsible. PW1 claimed to have stated that fact to the Doctor at Orchid Hospital, Malappuram, where she was scanned and examined. That Doctor was not examined. But PW4, who examined PW1 on 11. 03. 2009 stated in court that PW1 revealed the appellant as the person responsible and that version repeated in Ext. P1 that was given on 13. 03. 2009. Thus, from the very beginning, the version of PW1 regarding the person responsible for her pregnancy has been consistent. 14. The learned counsel would submit that PW1 accused the appellant in order to save Mujeeb, the son of PW5 in her first marriage. Various circumstances have been pointed out by the learned counsel for the appellant and it is submitted that since the only evidence available to implicate the appellant with the crime is the oral testimony of PW1, any doubt appeared in her evidence has to go in favour of the appellant. It is submitted, only if PW1 can be termed as a witness of sterling quality, there can be conviction. In that regard, the learned counsel placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Christopher v. State of Kerala [2024 KHC 7137] and a line of decisions referred to therein. 15. Inconsistencies in the evidence of PW1 highlighted by the learned counsel for the appellant are essentially a few improbabilities. Regarding the first incident, the narration by PW1 was that while sleeping along with her younger sister it occurred. That and the way in which she was allegedly abused are said to be improbable. The incidents allegedly occurred at their house at Ponmala were in the wee hours during Ramzan days. All were sleeping together. PW5 used to go to the kitchen at or around 4. 00 p. m. It was at that time PW1 was sexually misused. PW1 admitted her interaction with Mujeeb which was to the dislike of the appellant. He even warned PW5 against it. Although it was suggested that PW1 lied along with Mujeeb and she was therefore scolded by the appellant, it was denied by her. 16. It appears from the evidence that the appellant did not like PW1 interacting with Mujeeb closely. Along with that the version of PW5 to the effect that it was Mujeeb and not the appellant who was looking after the house hold affairs is highlighted. Those matters were relied in support of the defence plea that in order to save Mujeeb, the appellant was falsely implicated. Yet another aspect pointed out is that no scientific test like DNA examination was conducted and it was with an oblique motive of screening Mujeeb from the prosecution. 17. The aforementioned contentions are strongly refuted by the learned Public Prosecutor. It is submitted that the evidence of PW1 is blemish free. She being the daughter, it cannot be expected that she falsely implicate the appellant. Except suggestions by the appellant, there is no evidence or circumstance to even remotely probabilise the defence plea. Accordingly, the learned Senior Public Prosecutor would submit that the findings of the trial court are quite convincing and devoid of any infirmity. 18. Decisions of the Apex Court which dealt with the question concerning reliability of the victim of a sexual offence have been encapsulated by a Division Bench of this Court in the judgment in Christopher (supra). The relevant part of that judgment is extracted below: "26. In Nirmal Premkumar and another v. State, represented by Inspector of Police[(2024) SCC OnLine SC 260], the Apex Court while elucidating the principles that are to be borne in mind while appreciating oral testimony, it was observed as under in paragraph No. 11 of the judgment: "11. Law is well settled that generally speaking, oral testimony may be classified into three categories, viz. : (i) wholly reliable; (ii) wholly unreliable; (iii) neither wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable. The first two category of cases may not pose serious difficulty for the Court in arriving at its conclusion(s). However, in the third category of cases, the Court has to be circumspect and look for corroboration of any material particulars by reliable testimony, direct or circumstantial, as a requirement of the rule of prudence. " 27. In State of H. P. v. Raghubir Singh [(1993) 2 SCC 622], the Apex Court held that there is no legal compulsion to look for any other evidence to corroborate the evidence of the prosecutrix before recording an order of conviction. Evidence has to be weighed and not counted. Conviction can be recorded on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix if her evidence inspires confidence and there is absence of circumstances which militate against her veracity. 28. In Rai Sandeep v. State (NCT of Delhi) [(2012) 8 SCC 21], under what circumstances can a witness be categorized as a sterling witness, the Apex Court had held as under: "22. In our considered opinion, the 'sterling witness' should be of a very high quality and calibre whose version should, therefore, be unassailable. The court considering the version of such witness should be in a position to accept it for its face value without any hesitation. To test the quality of such a witness, the status of the witness would be immaterial and what would be relevant is the truthfulness of the statement made by such a witness. What would be more relevant would be the consistency of the statement right from the starting point till the end, namely, at the time when the witness makes the initial statement and ultimately before the court. It should be natural and consistent with the case of the prosecution qua the accused. There should not be any prevarication in the version of such a witness. The witness should be in a position to withstand the cross-examination of any length and howsoever strenuous it may be and under no circumstance should give room for any doubt as to the factum of the occurrence, the persons involved, as well as the sequence of it. Such a version should have co-relation with each and every one of other supporting material such as the recoveries made, the weapons used, the manner of offence committed, the scientific evidence and the expert opinion. The said version should consistently match with the version of every other witness. It can even be stated that it should be akin to the test applied in the case of circumstantial evidence where there should not be any missing link in the chain of circumstances to hold the accused guilty of the offence alleged against him. Only if the version of such a witness qualifies the above test as well as all other such similar tests to be applied, can it be held that such a witness can be called as a 'sterling witness' whose version can be accepted by the court without any corroboration and based on which the guilty can be punished. To be more precise, the version of the said witness on the core spectrum of the crime should remain intact while all other attendant materials, namely, oral, documentary and material objects should match the said version in material particulars in order to enable the court trying the offence to rely on the core version to sieve the other supporting materials for holding the offender guilty of the charge alleged. 29. In State of Maharashtra v. Chandraprakash Kewalchand Jain [(1990) 1 SCC 550], the Apex Court held that a woman, who is the victim of sexual assault, is not an accomplice to the crime but is a victim of another person's lust and, therefore, her evidence need not be tested with the same amount of suspicion as that of an accomplice. The Court observed as under in paragraph No. 16: "16. A prosecutrix of a sex offence cannot be put on a par with an accomplice. She is in fact a victim of the crime. The Evidence Act nowhere says that her evidence cannot be accepted unless it is corroborated in material particulars. She is undoubtedly a competent witness under Section 118 and her evidence must receive the same weight as is attached to an injured in cases of physical violence. The same degree of care and caution must attach in the evaluation of her evidence as in the case of an injured complainant or witness and no more. What is necessary is that the court must be alive to and conscious of the fact that it is dealing with the evidence of a person who is interested in the outcome of the charge levelled by her. If the court keeps this in mind and feels satisfied that it can act on the evidence of the prosecutrix, there is no rule of law or practice incorporated in the Evidence Act similar to Illustration (b) to Section 114 which requires it to look for corroboration. If for some reason the court is hesitant to place implicit reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix it may look for evidence which may lend assurance to her testimony short of corroboration required in the case of an accomplice. The nature of evidence required to lend assurance to the testimony of the prosecutrix must necessarily depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. But if a prosecutrix is an adult and of full understanding the court is entitled to base a conviction on her evidence unless the same is shown to be infirm and not trustworthy. If the totality of the circumstances appearing on the record of the case disclose that the prosecutrix does not have a strong motive to falsely involve the person charged, the court should ordinarily have no hesitation in accepting her evidence. " 30. In State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh[(1996) 2 SCC 384], the Apex Court held that in cases involving sexual harassment, molestation etc. , the court is duty-bound to deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. Minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of a prosecutrix should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable prosecution case. Evidence of the victim of sexual assault is enough for conviction and it does not require any corroboration unless there are compelling reasons for seeking corroboration. The court may look for some assurances of her statement to satisfy judicial conscience. The statement of the prosecutrix is more reliable than that of an injured witness as she is not an accomplice. The Court further held that the delay in filing FIR for sexual offence may not be even properly explained, but if found natural, the accused cannot be given any benefit thereof. The Court went on to observe as under in paragraph Nos. 8 & 21: "8. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. The court overlooked the situation in which a poor helpless minor girl had found herself in the company of three desperate young men who were threatening her and preventing her from raising any alarm. Again, if the investigating officer did not conduct the investigation properly or was negligent in not being able to trace out the driver or the car, how can that become a ground to discredit the testimony of the prosecutrix? The prosecutrix had no control over the investigating agency and the negligence of an investigating officer could not affect the credibility of the statement of the prosecutrix. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . The courts must, while evaluating evidence, remain alive to the fact that in a case of rape, no self-respecting woman would come forward in a court just to make a humiliating statement against her honour such as is involved in the commission of rape on her. In cases involving sexual molestation, supposed considerations which have no material effect on the veracity of the prosecution case or even discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix should not, unless the discrepancies are such which are of fatal nature, be allowed to throw out an otherwise reliable prosecution case. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Seeking corroboration of her statement before relying upon the same, as a rule, in such cases amounts to adding insult to injury. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Corroboration as a condition for judicial reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix is not a requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under given circumstances. xxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx 21. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. The courts should examine the broader probabilities of a case and not get swayed by minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix, which are not of a fatal nature, to throw out an otherwise reliable prosecution case. If evidence of the prosecutrix inspires confidence, it must be relied upon without seeking corroboration of her statement in material particulars. If for some reason the court finds it difficult to place implicit reliance on her testimony, it may look for evidence which may lend assurance to her testimony, short of corroboration required in the case of an accomplice. The testimony of the prosecutrix must be appreciated in the background of the entire case and the trial court must be alive to its responsibility and be sensitive while dealing with cases involving sexual molestations. 32. In State of Orissa v. Thakara Besra [(2002) 9 SCC 86], the Apex Court held that rape is not mere physical assault, rather it often destroys the whole personality of the victim. The rapist degrades the very soul of the helpless female and, therefore, the testimony of the prosecutrix must be appreciated in the background of the entire case, and in such cases, non-examination even of other witnesses may not be a serious infirmity in the prosecution case, particularly where the witnesses had not seen the commission of the offence. 33. In Krishan Kumar Malik (supra), the Apex Court emphasized the duty of the court to differentiate between genuine cases from frivolous and concocted ones. It was held that the role of courts in such cases is to see whether the evidence available before the court is enough and cogent to prove the guilt of the accused. It was held as follows in paragraphs Nos. 31 and 32 of the judgment: 31. No doubt, it is true that to hold an accused guilty for commission of an offence of rape, the solitary evidence of the prosecutrix is sufficient provided the same inspires confidence and appears to be absolutely trustworthy, unblemished and should be of sterling quality. But, in the case in hand, the evidence of the prosecutrix, showing several lacunae, which have already been projected hereinabove, would go to show that her evidence does not fall in that category and cannot be relied upon to hold the appellant guilty of the said offences. 32. Indeed there are several significant variations in material facts in her Section 164 statement, Section 161 statement (CrPC), FIR and deposition in court. Thus, it was necessary to get her evidence corroborated independently, which they could have done either by examination of Ritu, her sister or Bimla Devi, who were present in the house at the time of her alleged abduction. The record shows that Bimla Devi though cited as a witness was not examined and later given up by the public prosecutor on the ground that she has been won over by the appellant. 33. After evaluating all the past precedents, the Apex Court in Nirmal Premkumar (supra) held that in cases where witnesses are neither wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable, the Court should strive to find out the true genesis of the incident. The Court can rely on the victim as a 'sterling witness' without further corroboration, but the quality and credibility must be exceptionally high. The statement of the prosecutrix ought to be consistent from the beginning to the end (minor inconsistencies excepted) from the initial statement to the oral testimony, without creating any doubt qua the prosecution's case. While a victim's testimony is usually enough for sexual offence cases, an unreliable or insufficient account from the prosecutrix, marked by identified flaws and gaps, could make it difficult for a conviction to be recorded.

[case 3]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Ashish Sharma vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 22 January, 2025 Author: Maninder S. Bhatti Bench: Maninder S. Bhatti NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025: MPHC-JBP: 3251 1 MCRC-53467-2020 IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH AT JABALPUR BEFORE HON'BLE SHRI JUSTICE MANINDER S. BHATTI ON THE 22nd OF JANUARY, 2025 MISC. CRIMINAL CASE No. 53467 of 2020 ASHISH SHARMA AND OTHERS Versus THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND OTHERS Appearance: Shri Prashant Shrivas - Advocate for petitioners. Shri C. K. Mishra - Govt. Advocate for State. Shri Y. K. Chaurasia - Advocate for respondent No. 2. WITH MISC. CRIMINAL CASE No. 14967 of 2021 RAJSREE SHARMA Versus RAJESH SHARMA AND OTHERS Appearance: Shri Y. K. Chaurasia - Advocate for petitioner. Shri Prashant Shrivas - Advocate for respondent No. 1. Shri C. K. Mishra - Govt. Advocate for State. ORDER Both the petitions, being interlinked, were heard analogously and they are disposed of by a common order. For the sake of clarity and convenience, the facts adumbrated in M. Cr. C. No. 53467/2020 are taken note of. 2. This petition has been filed under Section 482 of the CrPC assailing the order dated 20-08-2020 passed in Cr. R. No. 432/2020 by the Additional Sessions Judge, Patan District Jabalpur, arising out of the order dated 06-02-2020 passed in R. C. T. No. 538/2019 (State of M. P. vs. Ashish Sharma and others) by the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Patan District Jabalpur. 3. The counsel for the petitioners contends that the petitioner No. 1 is husband, petitioner No. 2 is father-in-law, petitioner No. 3 is mother-in-law, petitioner No. 4 is brother-in-law and petitioners No. 5 and 6 are sister-in-laws of the respondent No. 2. After marriage of the petitioner No. 1 with the respondent No. 2, on 02-12-2015, certain disputes cropped up and a complaint was lodged against the petitioners under sections 498-A, 323, 34 and 506 of the IPC and under Section 3/4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. After filing of the charge-sheet, the trial Court proceeded to frame charges against the petitioners. The order framing charges was assailed by the petitioners by filing a revision before the revisional Court and the revisional Court has dismissed the revision. 4. The counsel for the petitioners contends that the FIR, if is read minutely, it would reveal that the entire allegations against the petitioners are baseless, vague, omnibus and general. It is contended by the counsel that if the allegations pertaining to the alleged demand of dowry are seen, it would reveal that the allegations are general and omnibus. It is nowhere stated by the complainant in the FIR that on which date and what time and place, she was subjected to demand of dowry or alleged cruelty. There are no mention of specific instances so far as the present petitioners are concerned. It is contended by the counsel that there is abnormal surge in cases against the family members of the husband, and following the same trend, respondent No. 2 has made an attempt to implicate the present petitioners. The petitioners No. 2 to 6 have been implicated only on the ground, that they are relatives of the petitioner No. 1, who is husband of the respondent No. 2. 5. It is further contended by the counsel that an application under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act was filed by the respondent No. 2, and the said application was allowed and a decree of divorce was passed on 02-07-2022. After passing of the decree of divorce on 02-07-2022, the respondent No. 2 - wife entered into a second wedlock on 09-07-2022 and the judgment and decree of divorce is under challenge in the appeal before this Court. It is contended by the counsel for the petitioners that in such circumstances, the order impugned as well as proceedings pending against the petitioners deserve to be quashed. 6. To buttress his submissions, the counsel for the petitioners has placed reliance on the decisions rendered in the cases of K. V. Prakash Babu vs. State of Karnataka, AIR 2016 SC 5430; Lalita Kumari vs. Govt. of U. P. and ors, (2014) 2 SCC 1; Kahkashan Kausar @ Sonam and others vs. State of Bihar and others, 2022 LiveLaw (SC) 141; Ravikant Dubey vs. State of M. P. , 2014 (2) MPHT 449; and Shakson Belthissor vs. State of Kerala and another, (2009) 14 SCC 466. In order to substantiate his contentions, the counsel has placed reliance on the decision of the Apex Court rendered in the cases of K. V. Prakash Babu (supra) while submitting that even if the husband is living in adultery, the same ipso facto does not amount to causing 'cruelty' within the meaning of Section 498-A of the IPC. 7. Per contra, the counsel for the respondent No. 2 submits that the present petition deserves to be dismissed. It is contended by the counsel that charges against the present petitioners were framed by the trial Court and the revisional Court, meticulously considered the submissions advanced on behalf of the petitioners and ultimately passed the order rejecting the revision. It is contended by the counsel that though the revision in respect of another co-accused, Rajesh Sharma has been allowed, but even against Rajesh Sharma, charges ought to have been framed. Assailing the said part by which charge against Rajesh Sharma has been quashed, the connected M. Cr. C. No. 14967/2021 has been preferred by the respondent No. 2. 8. The counsel for the respondent No. 2 contends that the FIR speaks volume about the act of cruelty at the behest of the present petitioners. There was continuous demand of dowry and specific instances of demand of dowry has been mentioned. It is specifically mentioned that when after the marriage, the respondent No. 2 after visiting her parental house and again went to the matrimonial house, she was subjected to demand of dowry. Thereafter, again there was demand of a four wheeler by the father-in-law and mother-in-law. It is further alleged in the FIR that the petitioner No. 1 was in an extramarital affair with a woman and the said woman used to visit the matrimonial house, and whenever the said woman used to visit, the respondent No. 2 was locked in a room, and she was not allowed to speak. The respondent No. 2 was not in a position to communicate with that woman. Later on, the said woman informed the respondent No. 2 that she was in a relationship with the petitioner No. 1. 9. It is further contended by the counsel for the respondent that the petitioner No. 1 had no physical relationship with the respondent No. 2 also, and the petitioners were torturing the respondent No. 2. 10. Heard the submissions advanced on behalf of the parties and perused the records. 11. A perusal of the record reflects that the respondent No. 2, who is the wife of the petitioner No. 1, lodged an FIR with the police, alleging that after her marriage with the petitioner No. 1 on 02-12-2015, she was subjected to cruelty under the garb of demand of dowry. In the FIR it is mentioned that certain household articles, jewelry and a two-wheeler etc. were given at the time of the marriage. After the marriage, there was a demand by the petitioners for a four-wheeler. Later on, the respondent No. 2 came to know, that the petitioner No. 1 was having extramarital affairs with a woman. The said woman was frequently visiting the matrimonial house, where the respondent No. 2 was residing with the petitioners and whenever the said woman used to visit, the respondent No. 2 was locked in a separate room. The petitioners were aware of the relationship with the petitioner No. 1 with the said woman. 12. It is further mentioned in the FIR that the said woman used to go to market along with the mother-in-law as well as both the sister-in-laws. Identity of the said woman was being not disclosed to the respondent No. 2. Later on, somehow the respondent No. 2 talked to the said woman and she informed that she was in a relation with the petitioner No. 1. She also provided a photograph in which she was there with the petitioner No. 1. In the later part of the FIR, there is again demand of a four-wheeler. 13. It is further alleged in the FIR that during a prolonged period of three years, there was intercourse hardly on 10-12 occasions. The petitioner No. 1 used to avoid intercourse and even, a separate room in which the respondent No. 2 along with the petitioner No. 1 was staying, was let out to a tenant. Therefore, entire family members were sharing two rooms and thus, there was no physical relationship. According to respondent No. 2, this was intentionally done by the petitioners. 14. Denial to enter into sexual intercourse by a spouse also amounts to cruelty, as laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of Samar Ghosh vs. Jaya Ghosh, (2007) 4 SCC 511, wherein in para 101 it ruled thus: "101. No uniform standard can ever be laid down for guidance, yet we deem it appropriate to enumerate some instances of human behavior which may be relevant in dealing with the cases of 'mental cruelty'. The instances indicated in the succeeding paragraphs are only illustrative and not exhaustive: (i) On consideration of complete matrimonial life of the parties, acute mental pain, agony and suffering as would not make possible for the parties to live with each other could come within the broad parameters of mental cruelty. (ii) On comprehensive appraisal of the entire matrimonial life of the parties, it becomes abundantly clear that the situation is such that the wronged party cannot reasonably be asked to put up with such conduct and continue to live with the other party. (iii) Mere coldness or lack of affection cannot amount to cruelty, frequent rudeness of language, petulance of manner, indifference and neglect may reach such a degree that it makes the married life for the other spouse absolutely intolerable. (iv) Mental cruelty is a state of mind. The feeling of deep anguish, disappointment, frustration in one spouse caused by the conduct of other for a long time may lead to mental cruelty. (v) A sustained course of abusive and humiliating treatment calculated to torture, discommode or render miserable life of the spouse. (vi) Sustained unjustifiable conduct and behavior of one spouse actually affecting the physical and mental health of the other spouse. The treatment complained of and the resultant danger or apprehension must be very grave, substantial, and weighty. (vii) Sustained reprehensible conduct, studied neglect, indifference or total departure from the normal standard of conjugal kindness causing injury to mental health or deriving sadistic pleasure can also amount to mental cruelty. (viii) The conduct must be much more than jealousy, selfishness, possessiveness, which causes unhappiness and dissatisfaction and emotional upset may not be a ground for grant of divorce on the ground of mental cruelty. (ix) Mere trivial irritations, quarrels, normal wear and tear of the married life which happens in day-to-day life would not be adequate for grant of divorce on the ground of mental cruelty. (x) The married life should be reviewed as a whole and a few isolated instances over a period of years will not amount to cruelty. The ill conduct must be persistent for a fairly lengthy period, where the relationship has deteriorated to an extent that because of the acts and behavior of a spouse, the wronged party finds it extremely difficult to live with the other party any longer, may amount to mental cruelty. (xi) If a husband submits himself for an operation of sterilization without medical reasons and without the consent or knowledge of his wife and similarly, if the wife undergoes vasectomy or abortion without medical reason or without the consent or knowledge of her husband, such an act of the spouse may lead to mental cruelty. (xii) Unilateral decision of refusal to have intercourse for a considerable period without there being any physical incapacity or valid reason may amount to mental cruelty. (xiii) Unilateral decision of either husband or wife after marriage not to have a child from the marriage may amount to cruelty. (xiv) Where there has been a long period of continuous separation, it may fairly be concluded that the matrimonial bond is beyond repair. The marriage becomes a fiction though supported by a legal tie. By refusing to sever that tie, the law in such cases does not serve the sanctity of marriage; on the contrary, it shows scant regard for the feelings and emotions of the parties. In such like situations, it may lead to mental cruelty. " 15. In the present case, it is undisputed that the FIR clearly reveals that the petitioner No. 1 was having extramarital affairs. The fact of extramarital affair, as per the first information report, was well known to the petitioners No. 2 to 6. The petitioner No. 1 intentionally let out the room in which the petitioner No. 1 and respondent No. 2 were residing. Thus, there was refusal by the petitioner No. 1 to cohabit with the respondent No. 2. In the detailed FIR it is clearly mentioned that the lady with whom the petitioner No. 1 was in extramarital affairs, was visiting the house of the petitioners frequently and during those visits, the respondent No. 2 was made to stay in a locked room, and these facts were in the knowledge of the petitioners. 16. The aforesaid acts of the petitioner, in the light of the law laid down in Samar Ghosh vs. Jaya Ghosh (supra) prima facie amount to "cruelty" and therefore, the trial Court did not commit any error in framing the charge against the present petitioners. The revisional Court also has not committed any error in passing the impugned order and has rightly allowed the revision, so far as the same pertains to the co-accused Rajesh Sharma. So far as the co-accused Rajesh Sharma was concerned, there were no allegations of causing any cruelty except the fact, that he was instrumental in arranging the marriage of the respondent No. 2 with the petitioner No. 1. The judgments relied upon by the petitioners are distinguishable on facts. 17. In view of the preceding analysis, this Court does not find any merit in the instant petitions preferred by the petitioners under Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. , and the same being sans substance, deserve to be and are hereby dismissed. (MANINDER S. BHATTI) JUDGE ac

[case 4]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Ashish Sharma vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 22 January, 2025 Author: Maninder S. Bhatti Bench: Maninder S. Bhatti NEUTRAL CITATION NO. 2025: MPHC-JBP: 3251 1 MCRC-53467-2020 IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH AT JABALPUR BEFORE HON'BLE SHRI JUSTICE MANINDER S. BHATTI ON THE 22nd OF JANUARY, 2025 MISC. CRIMINAL CASE No. 53467 of 2020 ASHISH SHARMA AND OTHERS Versus THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND OTHERS Appearance: Shri Prashant Shrivas - Advocate for petitioners. Shri C. K. Mishra - Govt. Advocate for State. Shri Y. K. Chaurasia - Advocate for respondent No. 2. WITH MISC. CRIMINAL CASE No. 14967 of 2021 RAJSREE SHARMA Versus RAJESH SHARMA AND OTHERS Appearance: Shri Y. K. Chaurasia - Advocate for petitioner. Shri Prashant Shrivas - Advocate for respondent No. 1. Shri C. K. Mishra - Govt. Advocate for State. ORDER Both the petitions, being interlinked, were heard analogously and they are disposed of by a common order. For the sake of clarity and convenience, the facts adumbrated in M. Cr. C. No. 53467/2020 are taken note of. 2. This petition has been filed under Section 482 of the CrPC assailing the order dated 20-08-2020 passed in Cr. R. No. 432/2020 by the Additional Sessions Judge, Patan District Jabalpur, arising out of the order dated 06-02-2020 passed in R. C. T. No. 538/2019 (State of M. P. vs. Ashish Sharma and others) by the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Patan District Jabalpur. 3. The counsel for the petitioners contends that the petitioner No. 1 is husband, petitioner No. 2 is father-in-law, petitioner No. 3 is mother-in-law, petitioner No. 4 is brother-in-law and petitioners No. 5 and 6 are sister-in-laws of the respondent No. 2. After marriage of the petitioner No. 1 with the respondent No. 2, on 02-12-2015, certain disputes cropped up and a complaint was lodged against the petitioners under sections 498-A, 323, 34 and 506 of the IPC and under Section 3/4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. After filing of the charge-sheet, the trial Court proceeded to frame charges against the petitioners. The order framing charges was assailed by the petitioners by filing a revision before the revisional Court and the revisional Court has dismissed the revision. 4. The counsel for the petitioners contends that the FIR, if is read minutely, it would reveal that the entire allegations against the petitioners are baseless, vague, omnibus and general. It is contended by the counsel that if the allegations pertaining to the alleged demand of dowry are seen, it would reveal that the allegations are general and omnibus. It is nowhere stated by the complainant in the FIR that on which date and what time and place, she was subjected to demand of dowry or alleged cruelty. There are no mention of specific instances so far as the present petitioners are concerned. It is contended by the counsel that there is abnormal surge in cases against the family members of the husband, and following the same trend, respondent No. 2 has made an attempt to implicate the present petitioners. The petitioners No. 2 to 6 have been implicated only on the ground, that they are relatives of the petitioner No. 1, who is husband of the respondent No. 2. 5. It is further contended by the counsel that an application under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act was filed by the respondent No. 2, and the said application was allowed and a decree of divorce was passed on 02-07-2022. After passing of the decree of divorce on 02-07-2022, the respondent No. 2 - wife entered into a second wedlock on 09-07-2022 and the judgment and decree of divorce is under challenge in the appeal before this Court. It is contended by the counsel for the petitioners that in such circumstances, the order impugned as well as proceedings pending against the petitioners deserve to be quashed. 6. To buttress his submissions, the counsel for the petitioners has placed reliance on the decisions rendered in the cases of K. V. Prakash Babu vs. State of Karnataka, AIR 2016 SC 5430; Lalita Kumari vs. Govt. of U. P. and ors, (2014) 2 SCC 1; Kahkashan Kausar @ Sonam and others vs. State of Bihar and others, 2022 LiveLaw (SC) 141; Ravikant Dubey vs. State of M. P. , 2014 (2) MPHT 449; and Shakson Belthissor vs. State of Kerala and another, (2009) 14 SCC 466. In order to substantiate his contentions, the counsel has placed reliance on the decision of the Apex Court rendered in the cases of K. V. Prakash Babu (supra) while submitting that even if the husband is living in adultery, the same ipso facto does not amount to causing 'cruelty' within the meaning of Section 498-A of the IPC. 7. Per contra, the counsel for the respondent No. 2 submits that the present petition deserves to be dismissed. It is contended by the counsel that charges against the present petitioners were framed by the trial Court and the revisional Court, meticulously considered the submissions advanced on behalf of the petitioners and ultimately passed the order rejecting the revision. It is contended by the counsel that though the revision in respect of another co-accused, Rajesh Sharma has been allowed, but even against Rajesh Sharma, charges ought to have been framed. Assailing the said part by which charge against Rajesh Sharma has been quashed, the connected M. Cr. C. No. 14967/2021 has been preferred by the respondent No. 2. 8. The counsel for the respondent No. 2 contends that the FIR speaks volume about the act of cruelty at the behest of the present petitioners. There was continuous demand of dowry and specific instances of demand of dowry has been mentioned. It is specifically mentioned that when after the marriage, the respondent No. 2 after visiting her parental house and again went to the matrimonial house, she was subjected to demand of dowry. Thereafter, again there was demand of a four wheeler by the father-in-law and mother-in-law. It is further alleged in the FIR that the petitioner No. 1 was in an extramarital affair with a woman and the said woman used to visit the matrimonial house, and whenever the said woman used to visit, the respondent No. 2 was locked in a room, and she was not allowed to speak. The respondent No. 2 was not in a position to communicate with that woman. Later on, the said woman informed the respondent No. 2 that she was in a relationship with the petitioner No. 1. 9. It is further contended by the counsel for the respondent that the petitioner No. 1 had no physical relationship with the respondent No. 2 also, and the petitioners were torturing the respondent No. 2. 10. Heard the submissions advanced on behalf of the parties and perused the records. 11. A perusal of the record reflects that the respondent No. 2, who is the wife of the petitioner No. 1, lodged an FIR with the police, alleging that after her marriage with the petitioner No. 1 on 02-12-2015, she was subjected to cruelty under the garb of demand of dowry. In the FIR it is mentioned that certain household articles, jewelry and a two-wheeler etc. were given at the time of the marriage. After the marriage, there was a demand by the petitioners for a four-wheeler. Later on, the respondent No. 2 came to know, that the petitioner No. 1 was having extramarital affairs with a woman. The said woman was frequently visiting the matrimonial house, where the respondent No. 2 was residing with the petitioners and whenever the said woman used to visit, the respondent No. 2 was locked in a separate room. The petitioners were aware of the relationship with the petitioner No. 1 with the said woman. 12. It is further mentioned in the FIR that the said woman used to go to market along with the mother-in-law as well as both the sister-in-laws. Identity of the said woman was being not disclosed to the respondent No. 2. Later on, somehow the respondent No. 2 talked to the said woman and she informed that she was in a relation with the petitioner No. 1. She also provided a photograph in which she was there with the petitioner No. 1. In the later part of the FIR, there is again demand of a four-wheeler. 13. It is further alleged in the FIR that during a prolonged period of three years, there was intercourse hardly on 10-12 occasions. The petitioner No. 1 used to avoid intercourse and even, a separate room in which the respondent No. 2 along with the petitioner No. 1 was staying, was let out to a tenant. Therefore, entire family members were sharing two rooms and thus, there was no physical relationship. According to respondent No. 2, this was intentionally done by the petitioners. 14. Denial to enter into sexual intercourse by a spouse also amounts to cruelty, as laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of Samar Ghosh vs. Jaya Ghosh, (2007) 4 SCC 511, wherein in para 101 it ruled thus: "101. No uniform standard can ever be laid down for guidance, yet we deem it appropriate to enumerate some instances of human behavior which may be relevant in dealing with the cases of 'mental cruelty'. The instances indicated in the succeeding paragraphs are only illustrative and not exhaustive: (i) On consideration of complete matrimonial life of the parties, acute mental pain, agony and suffering as would not make possible for the parties to live with each other could come within the broad parameters of mental cruelty. (ii) On comprehensive appraisal of the entire matrimonial life of the parties, it becomes abundantly clear that the situation is such that the wronged party cannot reasonably be asked to put up with such conduct and continue to live with the other party. (iii) Mere coldness or lack of affection cannot amount to cruelty, frequent rudeness of language, petulance of manner, indifference and neglect may reach such a degree that it makes the married life for the other spouse absolutely intolerable. (iv) Mental cruelty is a state of mind. The feeling of deep anguish, disappointment, frustration in one spouse caused by the conduct of other for a long time may lead to mental cruelty. (v) A sustained course of abusive and humiliating treatment calculated to torture, discommode or render miserable life of the spouse. (vi) Sustained unjustifiable conduct and behavior of one spouse actually affecting the physical and mental health of the other spouse. The treatment complained of and the resultant danger or apprehension must be very grave, substantial, and weighty. (vii) Sustained reprehensible conduct, studied neglect, indifference or total departure from the normal standard of conjugal kindness causing injury to mental health or deriving sadistic pleasure can also amount to mental cruelty. (viii) The conduct must be much more than jealousy, selfishness, possessiveness, which causes unhappiness and dissatisfaction and emotional upset may not be a ground for grant of divorce on the ground of mental cruelty. (ix) Mere trivial irritations, quarrels, normal wear and tear of the married life which happens in day-to-day life would not be adequate for grant of divorce on the ground of mental cruelty. (x) The married life should be reviewed as a whole and a few isolated instances over a period of years will not amount to cruelty. The ill conduct must be persistent for a fairly lengthy period, where the relationship has deteriorated to an extent that because of the acts and behavior of a spouse, the wronged party finds it extremely difficult to live with the other party any longer, may amount to mental cruelty. (xi) If a husband submits himself for an operation of sterilization without medical reasons and without the consent or knowledge of his wife and similarly, if the wife undergoes vasectomy or abortion without medical reason or without the consent or knowledge of her husband, such an act of the spouse may lead to mental cruelty. (xii) Unilateral decision of refusal to have intercourse for considerable period without there being any physical incapacity or valid reason may amount to mental cruelty. (xiii) Unilateral decision of either husband or wife after marriage not to have a child from the marriage may amount to cruelty. (xiv) Where there has been a long period of continuous separation, it may fairly be concluded that the matrimonial bond is beyond repair. The marriage becomes a fiction though supported by a legal tie. By refusing to sever that tie, the law in such cases does not serve the sanctity of marriage; on the contrary, it shows scant regard for the feelings and emotions of the parties. In such like situations, it may lead to mental cruelty. " 15. In the present case, it is undisputed that the FIR clearly reveals that the petitioner No. 1 was having extramarital affairs. The fact of extramarital affair, as per the first information report, was well known to the petitioners No. 2 to 6. The petitioner No. 1 intentionally let out the room in which the petitioner No. 1 and respondent No. 2 were residing. Thus, there was refusal by the petitioner No. 1 to cohabit with the respondent No. 2. In the detailed FIR it is clearly mentioned that the lady with whom the petitioner No. 1 was in extramarital affairs, was visiting the house of the petitioners frequently and during those visits, the respondent No. 2 was made to stay in a locked room, and these facts were in the knowledge of the petitioners. 16. The aforesaid acts of the petitioner, in the light of the law laid down in Samar Ghosh vs. Jaya Ghosh (supra) prima facie amount to "cruelty" and therefore, the trial Court did not commit any error in framing the charge against the present petitioners. The revisional Court also has not committed any error in passing the impugned order and has rightly allowed the revision, so far as the same pertains to the co-accused Rajesh Sharma. So far as the co-accused Rajesh Sharma was concerned, there were no allegations of causing any cruelty except the fact, that he was instrumental in arranging the marriage of the respondent No. 2 with the petitioner No. 1. The judgments relied upon by the petitioners are distinguishable on facts. 17. In view of the preceding analysis, this Court does not find any merit in the instant petitions preferred by the petitioners under Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. , and the same being sans substance, deserve to be and are hereby dismissed. (MANINDER S. BHATTI) JUDGE ac

[case 5]
For the respondents: Mr. H. S. Rawat and Mr.
Mohinder Zharaick, Additional
Advocates General for
respondent No. 1.
Virender Singh, Judge
Petitioners have filed the present petition, under
Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita,
2023 (hereinafter referred to as 'BNSS'), for quashing of FIR
No. 44 of 2020, dated 02. 11. 2020, (hereinafter referred to the
FIR, in question), registered with Women Police
Station Baddi, District Solan, H. P. , under Section 376 of
the Indian Penal Code, (hereinafter referred to as the 'IPC')
and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as the 'POCSO
Act'), as well as, proceedings resultant thereto, which are
stated to be pending, before the Court of learned Principal
Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board Court, Solan, H. P. , in
Case No. 22/2 of 2021, titled as 'State Vs. Saurav'.
2. The present petition has been filed by the
petitioners to quash the FIR, in question. In the present
case, petitioner No. 1 is the accused, whereas, petitioner
No. 2 is the child victim.
3. The main ground, upon which, the quashing of
FIR has been sought, is that during the pendency of the
case, petitioners have solemnized the marriage on
21. 02. 2025. In this regard, they have relied upon the
marriage certificate.
4. Not only this, petitioners have also pleaded that
they have been blessed with two children.
5. Perusal of record shows that FIR, in question,
has been lodged on the statement of respondent No. 2, who,
at the relevant time, was working as Legal-cum-Probation
Officer, District Child Protection Unit, District Solan, H. P.
6. In this background, when, learned counsel,
appearing for the petitioners, has been confronted with the
maintainability of the present petition, then, learned
counsel for the petitioners could not satisfy the judicial
conscience of this Court.
7. The FIR, in question, has been registered,
under the special statute i. e. POCSO Act. The Legislature,
in its wisdom, has enacted the special statute, i. e. POCSO
Act, by keeping in mind the rising number of cases, being
committed against the children. Once, it has been held
that the offences are against the State, then, it is the duty
of the State to prosecute the offender, before the competent
8. As observed earlier, the Legislature, in its
wisdom, has enacted the POCSO Act, with an object to
reduce the child abuse and protection of the children from
sexual offences. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Criminal
Appeal No. 3403 of 2023, titled as 'Ramji Lal Bairwa &
Anr. Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. ', Neutral Citation
No. 2024 (INSC) 846, has elaborately discussed the
provisions of POCSO Act and has held that the quashing of
the proceedings, under Section 528 of the BNSS, in POCSO
cases, on the basis of the settlement, is against the
legislative intent, behind the enactment. Relevant
paragraphs 10 to 12 and 31 of the said judgment are
reproduced, as under: -
"10. Before dealing with the contentions on
behalf of the respondents and also the
submissions of the learned amicus curiae and
the counsel for the intervenor, we think it only
appropriate to refer to certain relevant aspects of
the POCSO Act. As introduction to the POCSO
Act, what actually actuated the Parliament to
enact 'POCSO Act' has been stated thus: -
"Sexual offences against children are not
adequately addressed by the existing laws. A
large number of such offences are neither
specifically provided with nor are they
adequately penalised. Such offences against
children need to be defined explicitly and
countered through adequate penalties as an
effective deterrence. This Act provides for
protection of children from offences of sexual
assault, sexual harassment and pornography
with due regard for safeguarding the interest
and well-being of children. "
11. Contextually, it is worthy to refer to the
statement of objects and reasons for the
enactment of the POCSO Act. It reads as
5 2025: HHC: 5611
"STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS
Article 15 of the Constitution, inter alia,
confers upon the State powers to make special
provision for children. Further, article 39, inter
alia, provides that the State shall in particular
direct its policy towards securing that the
tender age of children are not abused and
their childhood and youth are protected
against exploitation and they are given
facilities to develop in a healthy manner and
in conditions of freedom and dignity.
2. The United Nations Convention on the
Rights of Children, ratified by India on 11th
December, 1992, requires the State Parties to
undertake all appropriate national, bilateral
and multilateral measures to prevent (a) the
inducement or coercion of a child to engage in
any unlawful sexual activity; (b) the

[case 6]
For the respondents: Mr. H. S. Rawat and Mr.
Mohinder Zharaick, Additional
Advocates General for
respondent No. 1.
Virender Singh, Judge
Petitioners have filed the present petition, under
Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita,
2023 (hereinafter referred to as 'BNSS'), for quashing of FIR
No. 44 of 2020, dated 02. 11. 2020, (hereinafter referred to the
FIR, in question), registered with Women Police
Station Baddi, District Solan, H. P. , under Section 376 of
the Indian Penal Code, (hereinafter referred to as the 'IPC')
and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as the 'POCSO
Act'), as well as, proceedings resultant thereto, which are
stated to be pending, before the Court of learned Principal
Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board Court, Solan, H. P. , in
Case No. 22/2 of 2021, titled as 'State Vs. Saurav'.
2. The present petition has been filed by the
petitioners to quash the FIR, in question. In the present
case, petitioner No. 1 is the accused, whereas, petitioner
No. 2 is the child victim.
3. The main ground, upon which, the quashing of
FIR has been sought, is that during the pendency of the
case, petitioners have solemnized the marriage on
21. 02. 2025. In this regard, they have relied upon the
marriage certificate.
4. Not only this, petitioners have also pleaded that
they have been blessed with two children.
5. Perusal of record shows that FIR, in question,
has been lodged on the statement of respondent No. 2, who,
at the relevant time, was working as Legal-cum-Probation
Officer, District Child Protection Unit, District Solan, H. P.
6. In this background, when, learned counsel,
appearing for the petitioners, has been confronted with the
maintainability of the present petition, then, learned
counsel for the petitioners could not satisfy the judicial
conscience of this Court.
7. The FIR, in question, has been registered,
under the special statute i. e. POCSO Act. The Legislature,
in its wisdom, has enacted the special statute, i. e. POCSO
Act, by keeping in view the rising number of cases, being
committed against the children. Once, it has been held
that the offences are against the State, then, it is the duty
of the State to prosecute the offender, before the competent
8. As observed earlier, the Legislature, in its
wisdom, has enacted the POCSO Act, with an object to
reduce the child abuse and protection of the children from
sexual offences. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Criminal
Appeal No. 3403 of 2023, titled as 'Ramji Lal Bairwa &
Anr. Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. ', Neutral Citation
No. 2024 (INSC) 846, has elaborately discussed the
provisions of POCSO Act and has held that the quashing of
the proceedings, under Section 528 of the BNSS, in POCSO
cases, on the basis of the settlement, is against the
legislative intent, behind the enactment. Relevant
paragraphs 10 to 12 and 31 of the said judgment are
reproduced, as under: -
"10. Before dealing with the contentions on
behalf of the respondents and also the
submissions of the learned amicus curiae and
the counsel for the intervenor, we think it only
appropriate to refer to certain relevant aspects of
the POCSO Act. As introduction to the POCSO
Act, what actually actuated the Parliament to
enact 'POCSO Act' has been stated thus: -
"Sexual offences against children are not
adequately addressed by the existing laws. A
large number of such offences are neither
specifically provided with nor are they
adequately penalised. Such offences against
children need to be defined explicitly and
countered through adequate penalties as an
effective deterrence. This Act provides for
protection of children from offences of sexual
assault, sexual harassment and pornography
with due regard for safeguarding the interest
and well-being of children. "
11. Contextually, it is worthy to refer to the
statement of objects and reasons for the
enactment of the POCSO Act. It reads as
5 2025: HHC: 5611
"STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS
Article 15 of the Constitution, inter alia,
confers upon the State powers to make special
provision for children. Further, article 39, inter
alia, provides that the State shall in particular
direct its policy towards securing that the
tender age of children are not abused and
their childhood and youth are protected
against exploitation and they are given
facilities to develop in a healthy manner and
in conditions of freedom and dignity.
2. The United Nations Convention on the
Rights of Children, ratified by India on 11th
December, 1992, requires the State Parties to
undertake all appropriate national, bilateral
and multilateral measures to prevent (a) the
inducement or coercion of a child to engage in
any unlawful sexual activity; (b) the

[case 7]
Counsel for Applicant: - Jitendra Pal Singh, Pradeep Kumar Singh
Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A.
Hon'ble Dinesh Kumar Singh-I, J.
Heard Sri Pradeep Kumar Singh, learned counsel for the applicant and Sri G. P. Singh, learned A. G. A. for the State.
This Application under Section 482 Cr. P. C. has been filed with a prayer to quash the Charge-Sheet No. 338 of 2018 dated 16. 11. 2018 as well as entire criminal proceeding of S. T. No. 142 of 2018 arising out of Case Crime No. 393 of 2018 under Sections 363, 366, 376 I. P. C. and 3/4 of P. O. C. S. O. Act, P. S. Jahanabad, District Pilibhit.
Learned counsel for the applicant argued that O. P. No. 2 is father of the victim and victim has married the accused applicant regarding which he has drawn attention of the Court towards page no. 24 of the paper book in which the victim has stated that she is 19 years old. 15 days ago, she had gone with the accused, thereafter on the next date, she married the accused applicant out of her own free will in Allahabad. Further attention has also been drawn of this Court towards the order of this Court passed in Habeas Corpus Writ Petition No. 54 of 2019 dated 20. 02. 2019 wherein reference is made of the statement of victim who had stated before court that she is 19 years old and is not literate and had gone with the accused applicant out of her own free will and had married the applicant. The attention is also drawn towards the observation made by the Bench which is as follows:
"In view of the categorical statement made by the corpus before this Court that she is an adult, even as per the record she is an adult and even by appearance and the manner in which she has faced the Court, this Court has got no doubt that she is an adult and is well aware of her rights, a case for grant of indulgence has been made out. "
Citing the above piece of evidence, learned counsel for the applicant has argued that I. O. has over-looked all these aspects and has submitted charge-sheet in the present case in routine manner which is nothing but abuse of process of law and the same needs to be quashed.
Learned A. G. A. has vehemently opposed the prayer of quashing and has drawn attention towards the statement of informant which is annexed at page no. 26 of the paper book in which he has stated that his daughter had studied up to class-V and that he was providing Transfer Certificate. He has stated the age of the victim to be 16 years, therefore in view of the above, it is argued that the age of the victim is required to be determined in accordance with the provision of Section 94 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 as has been held in Crl. Misc. Writ Petition No. 20816 of 2016, Nisha Naaz alias Anuradha and Another Vs. State of U. P. & 2 others decided on 6. 02. 2019 in which decision of Suhani Vs. State of U. P. , 2018 SCC Online SC 781 has been distinguished and the finding of Hon'ble Apex Court in Jarnail Singh Vs. State of Haryana (2013) 7 SCC 263 has been followed which provides that victim's age shall also be decided following the same provision as are followed for determining the age of a juvenile which provides as follows: -
"94. Presumption and determination of age- (1)Where, it is obvious to the Committee or the Board, based on the appearance of the person brought before it under any of the provisions of this Act (other than for the purpose of giving evidence) that the said person is a child, the Committee or the Board shall record such observation stating the age of the child as nearly as may be and proceed with the inquiry under section 14 or section 36, as the case may be, without waiting for further confirmation of the age.
2. In case, the Committee or the Board has reasonable grounds for doubt regarding whether the person brought before it is a child or not, the Committee or the Board, as the case may be, shall undertake the process of age determination, by seeking evidence by obtaining?
i. the date of birth certificate from the school, or the matriculation or equivalent certificate from the concerned examination Board, if available; and in the absence thereof;
ii. the birth certificate given by a corporation or a municipal authority or a panchayat;
iii. and only in the absence of (i) and (ii) above, age shall be determined by an ossification test or any other latest medical age determination test conducted on the orders of the Committee or the Board:
Provided such age determination test conducted on the order of the Committee or the Board shall be completed within fifteen days from the date of such order.
3. The age recorded by the Committee or the Board to be the age of person so brought before it shall, for the purpose of this Act, be deemed to be the true age of that person. "
It would be further pertinent to mention here the judgment of Apex Court rendered in Independent Thought vs. Union of India and another, (2017) 10 SCC 800, paragraph nos. 1 and 107 of which are as under:
"1. The issue before us is a limited but one of considerable public importance? whether sexual intercourse between a man and his wife being a girl between 15 and 18 years of age is rape? Exception 2 to Section 375 of the Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) answers this in the negative, but in our opinion sexual intercourse with a girl below 18 years of age is rape regardless of whether she is married or not. The Exception carved out in IPC creates an unnecessary and artificial distinction between a married girl child and an unmarried girl child and has no rational nexus with any unclear objective sought to be achieved. The artificial distinction is arbitrary and discriminatory and is definitely not in the best interest of the girl child. The artificial distinction is contrary to the philosophy and ethos of Article 15(3) of the Constitution as well as contrary to Article 21 of the Constitution and our commitments in international conventions. It is also contrary to the philosophy behind some statutes, the bodily integrity of the girl child and her reproductive choice. What is equally dreadful, the artificial distinction turns a blind eye to trafficking of the girl child and surely each one of us must discourage trafficking which is such a horrible social evil. "

[case 8]
State vs Rohit @ Sonu on 4 May, 2018 IN THE COURT OF SHRI BALWANT RAI BANSAL, ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE01, SPECIAL COURT (POCSO), SOUTH, NEW DELHI CISSC No. 530/17 FIR No. 410/17 PS: Mehrauli In the matter of: State versus Rohit @ Sonu S/o: Sh. Ashok Chauhan R/o: House No. 363, Firoz Gandhi Colony, Basai Road, Gurugram, Haryana. .. .. .. .. .. .. Accused. Date of Institution: 23. 09. 2017. Date of Reserving Judgment: Unreserved. Date of Pronouncement: 04. 05. 2018. Accused Rohit @ Sonu S/o Sh. Ashok Chauhan has been facing trial for the commission of the offences punishable under section 6 r/w 5 of the POCSO Act 2012 and section 376 (2) of the IPC, on the allegations that, he committed rape and aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon the girl child (the victim/prosecutrix), namely, 'N' (PW1, whose real name withheld in order to conceal her identity), aged 16 years. The brief facts of the case are that on 23. 06. 2017, the prosecutrix came to the PS Mehrauli and made a complaint to the police that she was sexually abused by a boy, namely, Rohit @ Sonu by promising to marry her. She also alleged that she also got pregnant and when she disclosed this fact to Rohit, he suggested her to terminate the pregnancy and on his persistent advice, she ate hot things due to which, her pregnancy was terminated. She alleged that on 19. 06. 2017, Rohit made physical relations with her lastly and on 20. 06. 2017, despite her repeated insistence, he refused to marry with her. Making the said complaint, the prosecutrix prayed for legal action against accused Rohit. Thereafter, the site plan of the place of occurrence was prepared at the instance of the prosecutrix and accused Rohit was arrested. The prosecutrix and the accused were medically examined. The statement of the prosecutrix was also recorded under section 164 Cr. P. C. During the course of the investigation, the age proof of the prosecutrix was also collected. After completion of the investigation, the chargesheet was prepared and filed in the court concerned for the commission of the offences punishable under sections 313/376 of the IPC and section 6 of the POCSO Act 2012. Charge for the commission of the offences punishable under section 6 of the POCSO Act and section 376 (2) of the IPC was framed against the accused Rohit @ Sonu, to which, the accused pleaded notguilty and claimed trial, and the case was proceeded for prosecution evidence. In the list of witnesses, the prosecution cited 16 witnesses, out of which, two witnesses, including the prosecutrix as PW1 and her mother as PW2, have been examined so far. It is submitted by Ld. Counsel for the accused that the prosecutrix who is the main witness of the prosecution has already been examined as PW1 alongwith her mother as PW2, who is the hearsay witness, and no other public witness remained to be examined. He submitted that PW1, who is the main and crucial witness, has not supported the case of the prosecution. The Ld. Counsel has submitted that since nothing incriminating evidence has come against the accused, therefore, to save the precious time and manpower and resources of the court, the further proceedings in the present case may be stopped, and the accused may be acquitted of the offences charged against him. On the other hand, the Ld. Special Public Prosecutor has opposed the contentions made by the counsel for the accused. I have considered the submissions made on behalf of both the parties and have gone through the record of the case. There are 16 witnesses cited by the prosecution in the list of witnesses, to prove its case. Out of the said 16 prosecution witnesses, two witnesses have already been examined, including the prosecutrix as PW1. It is pertinent to evaluate herein the testimony of PW1, who is the main and important witness of the prosecution, to decide the fate of the case. PW1, the prosecutrix 'N' (full particulars are mentioned at Sl. No. 01 in the list of the witnesses and the name withheld in order to conceal her identity) deposed that on 19. 06. 2017, it was the birthday of Rohit and they had celebrated his birthday in her house and thereafter, they went for shopping. In the evening, after shopping, Rohit dropped her to her house. She was asking him to marry her but he was not giving the clear answer and therefore, a quarrel took place between them. On the next day, he did not pick up her phone and she went to the police station and told the police that she was having friendship with Rohit for the last 4  5 years and he is not picking her phone. She stated that police obtained her signatures on some blank papers. She deposed that Rohit did not do any wrongful act with her and they were only friends. She deposed that she has married with Rohit on 23. 08. 2017. PW1 (the prosecutrix) was crossexamined by the Ld. Prosecutor and during her crossexamination, she denied the correctness of the suggestions put by the Ld. Prosecutor. PW2, namely, 'S' (full particulars withheld in order to conceal the identity) is the mother of the prosecutrix, who also turned hostile. In her evidence, she stated that her victim daughter was having friendly relations with Rohit being the neighbour, and she did not tell about their relationship or that Rohit has committed any wrongful act with her. PW2 (the mother of the prosecutrix) was also crossexamined by the Ld. Prosecutor, in which, she also denied the correctness of the suggestions put by the Ld. Prosecutor. As already mentioned, the accused has been facing trial for the commission of offences punishable under section 376 (2) of IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act. As per the case of the prosecution, the prosecutrix was raped by the accused since March 2015 till 19. 06. 2017, on several occasions, on the pretext of marriage, and also got pregnant, and the accused got her pregnancy terminated. PW1 (the prosecutrix) categorically stated that on 19. 06. 2017, on the day of the birthday of the accused, they had celebrated the birthday in her house and thereafter, they went for shopping. She stated that in the evening, after shopping, Rohit dropped her to her house. She also stated that she was asking him to marry her but he was not giving the clear answer and therefore, a quarrel took place between them, and on the next day when he did not pick up her phone, she went to the police station and told the police that she was having friendship with the accused for the last 45 years and he is not picking up her phone call. She categorically stated that the police obtained her signatures on some blank papers. She specifically stated that accused Rohit did not do any wrongful act with her and they were only friends. She stated that on 23. 08. 2017, she had married with the accused. In her crossexamination by the Ld. Prosecutor, she categorically denied the suggestion that in March 2015, at about 10: 00am, when her mother had gone for job and her siblings were at school and she was alone, Rohit came to her house and he proposed her for marriage. She also denied the suggestions that thereafter, Rohit made physical relationship with her consent or that thereafter, she had also introduced Rohit with her mother or that Rohit also talked with her mother for their marriage and her mother had agreed for the same. She also denied the suggestion that on 05. 01. 2017, Rohit refused to marry her and told her that if she would pressurize to marry him, then he would defame her in her relations. PW1 (the prosecutrix) categorically denied the suggestion put by the Ld. Prosecutor that Rohit made physical relationship with her on the pretext of marriage after alluring and enticing her. She also denied the correctness of the suggestion that Rohit has been making physical relationship with her for the last two years. She also denied the correctness of the suggestions that during the period December 2016 to March 2017, she also became pregnant and when she told the same to Rohit, he asked her to terminate the pregnancy or that on his persistent advice, she ate hot things due to which her pregnancy was terminated. She also denied the suggestion that on 19. 06. 2017, accused Rohit came to her house for celebrating his birthday and on the said day, he lastly made physical relationship with her. She also denied the correctness of the suggestion that the site plan Ex. PW1/B was prepared by the police at her instance. As per the MLC report of the prosecutrix, the sexual assault history narrated to the doctor is 'consensual sexual intercourse with Mr. Rohit who promised to marry her, and the last sexual intercourse was held on 19. 06. 2017'. However, PW1 (the prosecutrix) also denied the correctness of the suggestion put by the Ld. Prosecutor that at the time of her medical examination by the doctor, she had told to the doctor that she had consensual sexual relationship with accused Rohit. On seeing her statement Ex. PW1/E under section 164 Cr. P. C. , she voluntarily stated that she had given the said statement to the Magistrate on the advice of Priyanka Madam who was the police official, as she had told her that if she would not give the said statement, her marriage would not be solemnized with Rohit. She also denied the correctness of the suggestion that she had told to the Magistrate all the true and correct facts voluntarily and on her own and not at the advice of the police official Priyanka. On the other hand, while evaluating the testimony of PW2 (the mother of the prosecutrix), who is a hearsay witness, it reveals that she has also not supported the case of the prosecution at all, stating that her victim daughter was having friendly relations with Rohit being the neighbour, and her victim daughter did not tell her about her relationship with the accused Rohit or that Rohit has committed any wrongful act with her, and this witness was also crossexamined by the Ld. Prosecutor. In her crossexamination by the Ld. Prosecutor, PW2 (the mother of the prosecutrix) denied the correctness of the suggestions put by the Ld. Prosecutor that her victim daughter had told her that she loved Rohit and wanted to marry him, or that on her insistence, her victim daughter told her that they had also made physical relationship with each other. She also denied the correctness of the suggestion that on 20. 06. 2017, her victim daughter told her that Rohit and his family members are refusing to marry with her. She also denied having ever made statement MarkPW2/A to the police. In view of the aforesaid discussions, particularly, keeping in view the testimony of PW1 (the prosecutrix), in my considered opinion, no useful purpose will be served by examining the remaining prosecution witnesses, as it will not affect the fate of the case. The other prosecution witnesses are formal witnesses, most of which are police officials. There is no medical and forensic evidence on record to prove the case of the prosecution that the accused had made physical relations with the victim. In these circumstances, continuing with this trial any further, will only result in wastage of time and resources, and there will be no impact on the result of this trial. Hence, the prosecution evidence has been closed and the SA of the accused has been dispensed with. In the overall facts and circumstances of the case and the aforesaid discussions, there being no evidence against the accused, accused Rohit @ Sonu is entitled to be acquitted, and accordingly, the accused is not found guilty of committing the offences punishable under sections 376 (2) of IPC and section 6 read with section 5 of POCSO Act, and consequently, he is acquitted of the said offences. However, Rohit @ Sonu is required to furnish bail bond in the sum of Rs. 10, 000/ with one surety of like amount, under section 437A of Cr. P. C, which shall remain in force for a period of six months. The bail bonds are furnished and the same are accepted. File be consigned to Record Room, after necessary compliance. Pronounced in the open Court (Balwant Rai Bansal) th on 04 of the May, 2018. Additional Sessions Judge01, Special Court (POCSO), South: Saket Courts: New Delhi.

[case 9]
Bangalore District Court State By Subramanyapura vs Sawalram Patel on 25 November, 2015. IN THE COURT OF THE LIII ADDL, CITY CIVIL AND SESSIONS JUDGE AT BANGALORE Special Court (CCH-54) DATED THIS THE 25th DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2015. PRESENT: Smt. H. G. Vijayakumari. , B. Sc. ,LLB. , LIII Addl. City Civil & Sessions Judge, Bangalore. Spl. C. C. No. 60/2015 COMPLAINANT State by Subramanyapura Police Station, Bangalore. (By Public Prosecutor, Bangalore. ) ACCUSED Sawalram Patel, S/o. Madharam Patel, Age: 42 years, No. 15, Rushshyashrunga Road, Old Bank Colony, Konanakunte, Bangalore City. Native of: Dabli Village, Shivana Taluk, Asamudri Thana Badker District, Rajastan State. (By Sri. -K. V. S. - Advocate) 1. Date of Commission Of Offence: One year prior to 03. 11. 2014 2. Date of Report Of Offence 03. 11. 2014 3. Date of arrest of accused 07. 11. 2014 4 Date of release on Bail 28. 01. 2015 Period undergone in Judicial Custody 71 days 6 Name of the: Manjunath complainant 7. Date of Commencement of recording evidence 26. 10. 2015 8. Date of Closing of Evidence 05. 11. 2015 9. Offences complained of: Section 354, and 376 of Indian Penal Code and section 5(L)(M) R/w. 6 of POCSO Act 2012 10. Opinion of the Judge: Accused is found not guilty 11 Order of the Court: As per final order JUDGMENT The Police Inspector of Subramanyapura Police station, Bangalore City has filed charge sheet against the accused for the offences punishable under section 354, 376 of Indian Penal Code and 5(L)(M) and 6 of POCSO Act 2012. 2. In brief the case of the prosecution as per Ex. P. 2 is as under: - That victim girl has given a letter to the coordinator, BOSCO Child Line, Bangalore on 03. 11. 2014 alleging that accused misbehaving with her by touching her private parts since she was of 7 years old, since one year back, she was sexually abused by the accused by showing the obscene video telling that he will purchase new dresses for her and also threatened her not to disclose the incident to anyone. Based on the said letter, the complainant has lodged the complaint as per Ex. P7 and case has been registered by the Investigation Officer and charge sheet has been filed against the accused. 3. As soon as charge sheet was filed and the prosecution papers were made available to the accused as required under section 207 of Criminal Procedure Code, the learned counsel appearing for the accused and the learned Public Prosecutor were heard regarding the framing of charge under section 354 and 376 Indian Penal Code and 5(L)(M) R/w. 6 of POCSO Act 2012. Charge was framed and read over and explained to the accused. Accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Therefore the case was posted for evidence of the prosecution. 4. In order to prove the alleged offences the prosecution examined 6 Witness as PWs 1 to 6 and documents have been marked as per Ex. P. 1 to Ex. P. 7. No incriminating articles have been marked. 5. Heard Learned Public Prosecutor for the state, and learned counsel appearing for the accused. 6. Now the point that arise for my consideration are: 1) Whether prosecution proves beyond all reasonable doubt: (a) That accused since from 2 years attempted to outrage the modesty of the victim girl by showing obscene videos and thereby committed the offence Punishable U/sec. 354 of Indian Penal Code? (b) That since from one year accused committed rape against the victim girl against her will and thereby committed the offence Punishable U/sec. 376 of Indian Penal Code? (c) That accused had sexually assaulted the victim girl aged below 12 years and thereby committed the offence Punishable U/sec. 5(L) R/w. 6 POCSO Act 2012? (d) That accused committed sexual assault against the victim girl more than once and thereby committed the offence Punishable U/ sec. 5(M) R/w. 6 of POCSO Act? 2) What Order? 7. My findings above points are as under: - Point No. 1 (a): In the negative Point No. 1 (b): In the negative Point No. 1 (c): In the negative Point No. 1 (d): In the negative Point No. 2: as per final Order REASONS 8. Point No. 1(a) to (d): - All the points are taken up together as they are inter related to each other. 9. The burden is on the prosecution to prove that accused since from one year back accused committed sexual assault against the victim girl Cw2 against her will and since from 2 years accused used to touch her body and used to show obscene videos and misbehaved with her. 10. Now let me consider the other oral evidence adduced by the prosecution. 11. Pw1 victim girl deposed in her evidence that she has not given statement before the police alleging that accused misbehaved with her and committed sexual assault and she is not aware of the contents written in Ex. P1 and Ex. P2, wherein she put her signature. She also treated as hostile witness by the prosecution and she denied that she has lodged complaint as per Ex. p2 alleging that accused misbehaved with her and committed sexual assault and raped her and police drew mahazer as per Ex. P1. She also denied that she has given statement before the police as per Ex. P3 stating that accused misbehaved with her and committed rape showing obscene videos. She also stated that Ex. P2 is not in her hand writing and she only signed Ex. P2. 12. Pw2 Bhavani Devi mother of the victim girl deposed that she has not given statement before the police regarding the alleged incident. The said witness is also treated as hostile witness by the prosecution and she has given statement before the police as per Ex. P4 stating that she came to know the accused misbehaved with the victim girl and sexually harassed her. 13. Pw3 Balaram deposed in his evidence that victim girl is his sister's daughter. He has not given statement before the police that accused misbehaved with the victim girl. The said witness is also treated as hostile witness by the prosecution and he denied that he has given statement before the police that he came to know that accused misbehaved with the Pw2 and sexually harassed her. 14. Pw4 Ravi Kumar who is a mahazer witness deposed in his evidence that he put his signature to mahazer Ex. P1 about one year back in Subramanyapura police station and not known the contents. He also treated as hostile witness by the prosecution and he denied that police drew the mahazer on 07. 11. 2014 at House No. 27, 1st floor, Byraveswara Nilaya, ABM colony, Bangalore and after knowing the contents of the mahazer, he has signed and deposing falsely. 15. Pw5 Annappa who is also mahazer witness deposed in his evidence that he put his signature to mahazer Ex. P6 in the police station and not known the contents. He also treated as hostile witness by the prosecution and he denied that police drew the mahazer on 07. 11. 2014 at House No. 15, 2nd floor, Old Bank Colony, Rushyashrunga Road, Bangalore and seized the mobile. 16. Pw6 Manjuanth complainant deposed in his evidence that on 01. 11. 2014 at 5-00 p. m. , received the phone message from the public, it was attended by Idayith attender and on the same day at 6-00 p. m. , Idayith told that he received from phone message from the public with respect of sexual assault. On the next day, he went to the shop of the accused along with Akshitha and introduced as BEO Office officials came to enquire about the victim, as she has not attended the classes. Accused called his wife to bring the victim girl. Victim girl and her mother came at 12-20 p. m. , take away the victim girl in the Jeep and she disclosed the sexual assault by the accused since two years and also gave it in writing and reported the matter to the Director and Coordinator. Thereafter, lodged the complaint as per Ex. P7. 17. On perusal of the evidence of Pw1, Pw1 and Akshitha representing themselves that they are from BEO office had come to enquire about the victim girl, as why she has not attending the school regularly. Accused asked to bring the victim girl and victim girl was brought by her mother at 12-20 p. m. , and on enquiry the victim girl narrated the incident and also in writing as per Ex. P2. 18. It is clear from the records that case has been registered based on the complaint lodged by the complainant. It is the case of the complainant that he was not in the office while Idayith attender received the phone call. Idayith attender of Child Line is not examined by the prosecution. Pw6 also admits that they have maintained the registers for having received the phone calls from the public. It is clear from the evidence of Pw1 that immediately after he came to know about the incident, he has not reported the incident to the Special Juvenile Unit or the Local police U/Sec. 19(1)(a)(b) of POCSO Act 2012. Pw6 admits that he has not furnished the copy of the register maintained by them regarding phone call received in their office to the jurisdictional police. On perusal of the prosecution papers, Investigation Officer has not enquired Idayith attender of the Child Line who received the phone call from the public. On perusal of the evidence of Pw6, he lodged the complaint as per Ex. P7, after discussion with his superior officers and immediately he has not brought to the notice of the jurisdictional police with respect of the alleged incident. 19. The prosecution case is not supported by the evidence of Pw1 victim girl and she denied the incident in toto. She denied the sexual harassment by the accused and denied the contents of Ex. P1 and Ex. P2 is known to her. She denied that she has given complaint to the Child Line as per Ex. P2 and police drew mahazer on 07. 11. 2015. She also stated that Ex. P2 is not in her hand writing and she only signed and she does not know to read and write English and Kannada. The prosecution case is also not supported by the evidence of Pw2 Bhavani Devi mother of the victim girl and Pw3 Balaram relative of the complainant. They have denied the incident and also denied that they have stated before the police as per Ex. P3 to Ex. P5. 20. Ex. P1 mahazer dated 07. 11. 2014 alleged to have been drawn in the house of the victim girl is not supported by the victim girl and Pw4 Ravi Kumar deposed that he has signed the mahazer in the police station. Ex. P6 mahazer dated 07. 11. 2014 is also not proved by the prosecution. Pw5 Annappa who is a mahazer witness deposed in his evidence that he has not known the contents of Ex. P6 and he put his signature about 6 months back at Subramanyapura police station and not known its contents. Hence, Ex. P7 mahazer is also not proved by the prosecution satisfactorily. 21. In an offence under section 376 of Indian Penal Code the evidence of the prosecution plays a vital role. The evidence of the victim girl can be accepted without there being corroboration. However, if there are any inconsistency or discrepancies in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, then the court has to look for corroboration to the evidence of the victim girl, but the prosecution case is not supported by the evidence of the victim girl herself. 22. The prosecution case is also not supported by the evidence of Pws. 1 to 3 and mahazer witness Pw4 and Pw5. The Investigation Officer is also not examined. The mobile phone which accused used to show obscene videos to the victim girl is also not seized by the Investigation Officer. 23. Thus the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt on the part of the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, in view of all these reasons, I answer point No. 1(a) to 1(d) in the negative. 24. Point No. 2: - In view of the aforesaid reasons and findings on point Nos. 1(a) to (d), accused is found not guilty for the above said offences, in the result, I proceed to pass the following: ORDER Acting under section 235(1) of Criminal Procedure Code, accused is acquitted for the offences punishable Under Section 354 and 376 of Indian Penal Code and section 5(L)(M) R/w. 6 of POCSO Act 2012. Bail bonds and surety bonds shall stands cancelled. (Dictated to the Judgment writer, corrected and then pronounced in Open Court on this the 25th day of NOVEMBER, 2015. ) (H. G. VIJAYA KUMARI) LIII ADDL, CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS, JUDGE, BANGALORE.

[case 10]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 27-04-2016 CORAM: THE HONOURABLE DR. JUSTICE P. DEVADASS Crl. M. P. No. 3669 of 2016 in Crl. A. No. 235 of 2016 Suresh. . Petitioner -vs- State Represented by The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station-Udhagamandalam, Udhagamandalam, Nilgiris District. (Crime No. 1 of 2015). . Respondent Petition filed under Section 389(1) of Cr. P. C. , to suspend the sentence of imprisonment passed in Spl. S. C. No. 4 of 2015 dated 27. 11. 2015 by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Fast Track Mahila Court, Udhagamandalam, Nilgiris District and release the petitioner on bail pending disposal of the Criminal Appeal. For Petitioner: Mr. J. T. Rajasuriya For Respondent: Mr. P. Govindarajan, Additional Public Prosecutor. O R D E R The sole accused in the Special Sessions Case in Spl. S. C. No. 4 of 2015 on the file of the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Fast Track Mahila Court, Nilgiris District at Udhagamandalam seeks suspension of his sentence of imprisonment. In the said Court, after trial, the trial Court convicted the accused under Section 7 read with Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter POCSO Act) and sentenced him 3 years R. I. and fined him Rs. 5, 000/- and directed him to pay a compensation of Rs. 1, 00, 000/-, i/d 2 years RI. The learned Judge also directed him payment of further compensation of Rs. 2, 00, 000/- out of Victim Assistance Fund. PW-2 is the daughter of PW-1. The accused has been prosecuted for he having sexually abused her. The Trial Court believed her and construed his act as a sexual assault and thus convicted and sentenced him as stated above. The learned counsel for the petitioner/appellant would contend that the petitioner as well as the accused fancied each other. They fell in love. To distance him from her daughter, PW-1 had engineered this case. The prosecution version is the concocted brainchild of PW-1 in an unholistic alliance with the obliging police. The learned counsel for the petitioner further contended that in this case the two instances of occurrence have been projected. However, on this aspect, there is material contradictions as between the mother (P. W. 1) and the daughter/P. W. 2. It is PW-1 vs. PW-2. The learned counsel for the petitioner would also contend that top of it, there is material variation in the testimony of PW-2 before and during trial. Before trial before a Magistrate under Section 164 Cr. P. C. So also in her police statement. P. Ws. -2 and 1 were inconsistent as to the alleged date of occurrence, more particularly, PW-1 introduces a date, namely, 5. 3. 2015 which is nobody's case. 5. 3. 2015 was not uttered either by PW-2 nor prosecution. Thus, PW-1's version is a coloured version. In such circumstances, placing implicit reliance on the testimony of PWs-1 and 2 and inflict punishment upon the accused is too dangerous. Thus, there is prima facie case in favour of the petitioner. He will not run away. He has no bad history/antecedents. In the circumstances, he may be granted appeal bail. On the other hand, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor would submit that the Court can keep aside PW-1 because she is not the victim and focus its attention mainly on the victim/PW-2. Her evidence is crystal clear that the accused prayed on PW-2 like a vulture. He committed the inhuman act upon a minor child. Her solemn statement as to the sexual violence committed upon her. There is no significant reason for PW-1 as against the accused to implicate the accused risking the life and future of unmarried school going minor daughter. Very grave allegations are made as against the accused. There is no prima facie case in favour of the petitioner. This case is not a fit case for the grant of appeal bail. I have anxiously considered the rival submissions, perused the Trial Court's judgment and the piece of evidence referred to by both sides. In the facts and circumstances, now the question is whether the petitioner could be granted appeal bail under Section 389(1) Cr. P. C. Regular bail in a non-bailable offence in fit cases are being granted by the Magistrates under Section 437 Cr. P. C. While other Courts and the High Court exercises concurrent jurisdiction to grant bail in non-bailable cases under Section 439 Cr. P. C. The remand prisoners, under-trials could seek bail under the said provisions during pre-conviction stage of a criminal case. During that stage, it is pertinent to note that the presumption of innocence of an accused is intact because everyone is presumed to be innocent till the guilt alleged against the accused is proved beyond all reasonable doubts. However, once conviction is recorded, the said presumption is replaced by a Criminal Court judgment. Thereafter, also the conviction person can seek bail under Section 389 (1) Cr. P. C. Thus, the consideration for the grant of bail to an accused during the pre-conviction stage (before judgment) and post-conviction stage (after judgment) are different. So far as appeal bail under Section 389(1) Cr. P. C. is concerned, the Court has to find out is there any prima facie case in favour of the petitioner. While doing so, the Court should not indulge in meticulous examination of the evidence of the accused because the main appeal is not heard. It is still pending. To find out the prima facie case, the Trial Court has to refer to the findings recorded by the trial Court and the relevant evidence referred to. Further, it must also take into account the nature of the accusation made as against the accused. In view of the large scale violence committed upon the children, in 2012, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (Act No. 32 of 2012) has been enacted. It is a Central Act. It contains provisions ensuring confidentiality of the victim of the offence, her family details and also conducting of the trial in a child friendly atmosphere and it had also introduced a legal fiction as to the criminal propensity, mental faculty of the accused, through Sections 29 and 30(1) of the Act. However, under Section 30(2), the Act one's right of presumption of innocence until he is otherwise held guilty by legal evidence has been preserved. Thus, it is Indianised version of admixture of English Criminal Law (Common System of Law) and French Criminal Law (Continental System of Law). Now, in a prosecution launched under POCSO Act, age of the victim is very important because only upon the victim being below 18 years that she is a 'child' the stringent provisions of POCSO Act will apply and consent of the victim being immaterial under POCSO Act. POCSO Act is much more wider in scope in prosecuting an accused than prosecuting accused under Section 376 IPC. In this case, start of the offence was stated to be on 21. 2. 2015 in the house of PW-1, when her mother was away. During that time, PW-2 was studying VIII Standard in a school. It is stated that then she was 13 years old. Ex. P-3 School Certificate, Ex. P-8 Medical Certificate, Ex. P-9 age Certificate and the evidence of PW-7 School Headmaster and PW-5 Doctor beyond pale of any controversy establishes that at the time when the alleged occurrence took place, she was below 18 years. So she is a child within the meaning of Section 2(d) of POCSO Act. So the provisions of POCSO Act became applicable to this case. PW-2 is stated to be the victim of a sexual violence. Her evidence shall be treated as the evidence of an injured witness. If her evidence is consistent, cogent, unimpeachable unless there is acceptable reasons to implicate the accused, her evidence can be acted upon. The question of looking for corroboration for her evidence arises when her evidence appears to be murky. This is a rule of prudence and not a rule of law. Thus, corroboration cannot be insisted upon as a condition precedent to act on the testimony of a victim in a sexual violence case. But while appreciating their evidence, the Court must fathom out the reality of the situation and the truth of the allegations. While doing so, the Court cannot mistake every difference in evidence as a material contradiction. It cannot go blow out a contradiction beyond proportion. It cannot mistook a mole a mountain. In a sexual violence case, honour of two persons, namely, the victim as well as the accused is involved. When the allegations are very serious, the Court must be very serious of proving those allegations. Even to impute culpable mental state to the accused, there must be some material for the Court to have reason to believe the existence of such a fact (See Sections 29 and 30(2) of POCSO Act, 2012). Now, in this case, PW-2 the minor child had the countenance of the accused, a Book-Seller for the first time when he came to their house to market his books. PW-1 forewarned him not to visit again since there are ladies in her house. According to PW-2, on the fateful day, namely, on 21. 2. 2015, at about 2 p. m. , while she was alone in her house, the accused came, pressed her breasts, pushed her to the bed, sexually abused her private parts by placing his private part. Subsequently, on 28. 3. 2015 around 2 p. m. , when again the accused came to her house with similar motive, PW-2 raised alarm, the accused took to his heels, PW-1 came, PW-2 recounted the whole incident and also the earlier incident that took place on 21. 2. 2015. Thereafter, police complaint was lodged. Thereafter, medical examination was conducted and there was no presence of external injuries on her private part. It is pertinent to note that the actual physical violence was not on 28. 3. 2015. Even as per the version of PW-2, it was on 21. 2. 2015 and thus, by the time the medical examination was conducted more than a month had passed away, the evidence on her person had fade away. PW-2, being a child was under extreme trauma, normally a child like her, when placed in such grim situation, will not be forthcoming and will try to hide the shame. But, in this case, as per PW-2 when again the accused attempted to make her sexual assault on her, unable to put up with the shame, she cried and the accused was caught. Reading the evidence of PWs-2 and 1 and other witnesses and the complaint, the substratum of the case that the accused on the first occasion had sexually assaulted the victim has been brought out by the prosecution. The attempt of the defence to dilute the effect of the said evidence by clinging to some difference in the evidence of PWs-1 and 2 and in the statement of the victim girl recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C. which are not so material and are not significant enough to shake the veracity of the testimony of the victim girl has not been shattered by this adventure of the defence which has become a misadventure. Further, there is no convincing reason or motive supported by any material or acceptable reason to view the evidence of PW-2 with a jaundiced eye. The nature of the allegations made as against the accused is very serious. Thus, the fallout is that there is no prima facie case in favour of the petitioner. Thus, I am not inclined to grant him appeal bail. In view of the foregoings, this petition is dismissed. However, it is made clear that the observations made in this order are only for the purpose of finding out a prima facie case to take a decision in this petition and it has nothing to do with the disposal of the main Criminal Appeal. The Registrar (Judicial) is directed to make ready the booklet expeditiously as and when the appeal is ripe for disposal, it shall be included in the causelist under the caption 'Accused in Jail cases'.

[case 11]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 27-04-2016 CORAM: THE HONOURABLE DR. JUSTICE P. DEVADASS Crl. M. P. No. 3669 of 2016 in Crl. A. No. 235 of 2016 Suresh. . Petitioner -vs- State Represented by The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station-Udhagamandalam, Udhagamandalam, Nilgiris District. (Crime No. 1 of 2015). . Respondent Petition filed under Section 389(1) of Cr. P. C. , to suspend the sentence of imprisonment passed in Spl. S. C. No. 4 of 2015 dated 27. 11. 2015 by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Fast Track Mahila Court, Udhagamandalam, Nilgiris District and release the petitioner on bail pending disposal of the Criminal Appeal. For Petitioner: Mr. J. T. Rajasuriya For Respondent: Mr. P. Govindarajan, Additional Public Prosecutor. O R D E R The sole accused in the Special Sessions Case in Spl. S. C. No. 4 of 2015 on the file of the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Fast Track Mahila Court, Nilgiris District at Udhagamandalam seeks suspension of his sentence of imprisonment. In the said Court, after trial, the trial Court convicted the accused under Section 7 read with Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter POCSO Act) and sentenced him 3 years R. I. and fined him Rs. 5, 000/- and directed him to pay a compensation of Rs. 1, 00, 000/-, i/d 2 years RI. The learned Judge also directed him payment of further compensation of Rs. 2, 00, 000/- out of Victim Assistance Fund. PW-2 is the daughter of PW-1. The accused has been prosecuted for he having sexually abused her. The Trial Court believed her and construed his act as a sexual assault and thus convicted and sentenced him as stated above. The learned counsel for the petitioner/appellant would contend that the petitioner as well as the accused fancied each other. They fell in love. To distance him from her daughter, PW-1 had engineered this case. The prosecution version is the concocted brainchild of PW-1 in an unholistic alliance with the obliging police. The learned counsel for the petitioner further contended that in this case the two instances of occurrence have been projected. However, on this aspect, there is material contradictions as between the mother (P. W. 1) and the daughter/P. W. 2. It is PW-1 vs. PW-2. The learned counsel for the petitioner would also contend that top of it, there is material variation in the testimony of PW-2 before and during trial. Before trial before a Magistrate under Section 164 Cr. P. C. So also in her police statement. P. Ws. -2 and 1 were inconsistent as to the alleged date of occurrence, more particularly, PW-1 introduces a date, namely, 5. 3. 2015 which is nobody's case. 5. 3. 2015 was not uttered either by PW-2 nor prosecution. Thus, PW-1's version is a coloured version. In such circumstances, placing implicit reliance on the testimony of PWs-1 and 2 and inflict punishment upon the accused is too dangerous. Thus, there is prima facie case in favour of the petitioner. He will not run away. He has no bad history/antecedents. In the circumstances, he may be granted appeal bail. On the other hand, the learned Additional Public Prosecutor would submit that the Court can keep aside PW-1 because she is not the victim and focus its attention mainly on the victim/PW-2. Her evidence is crystal clear that the accused prayed on PW-2 like a vulture. He committed the inhuman act upon a minor child. Her solemn statement as to the sexual violence committed upon her. There is no significant reason for PW-1 as against the accused to implicate the accused risking the life and future of unmarried school going minor daughter. Very grave allegations are made as against the accused. There is no prima facie case in favour of the petitioner. This case is not a fit case for the grant of appeal bail. I have anxiously considered the rival submissions, perused the Trial Court's judgment and the piece of evidence referred to by both sides. In the facts and circumstances, now the question is whether the petitioner could be granted appeal bail under Section 389(1) Cr. P. C. Regular bail in a non-bailable offence in fit cases are being granted by the Magistrates under Section 437 Cr. P. C. While other Courts and the High Court exercises concurrent jurisdiction to grant bail in non-bailable cases under Section 439 Cr. P. C. The remand prisoners, under-trials could seek bail under the said provisions during pre-conviction stage of a criminal case. During that stage, it is pertinent to note that the presumption of innocence of an accused is intact because everyone is presumed to be innocent till the guilt alleged against the accused is proved beyond all reasonable doubts. However, once conviction is recorded, the said presumption is replaced by a Criminal Court judgment. Thereafter, also the conviction person can seek bail under Section 389 (1) Cr. P. C. Thus, the consideration for the grant of bail to an accused during the pre-conviction stage (before judgment) and post-conviction stage (after judgment) are different. So far as appeal bail under Section 389(1) Cr. P. C. is concerned, the Court has to find out is there any prima facie case in favour of the petitioner. While doing so, the Court should not indulge in meticulous examination of the evidence of the accused because the main appeal is not heard. It is still pending. To find out the prima facie case, the Trial Court has to refer to the findings recorded by the trial Court and the relevant evidence referred to. Further, it must also take into account the nature of the accusation made as against the accused. In view of the large scale violence committed upon the children, in 2012, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (Act No. 32 of 2012) has been enacted. It is a Central Act. It contains provisions ensuring confidentiality of the victim of the offence, her family details and also conducting of the trial in a child friendly atmosphere and it had also introduced a legal fiction as to the criminal propensity, mental faculty of the accused, through Sections 29 and 30(1) of the Act. However, under Section 30(2), the Act one's right of presumption of innocence until he is otherwise held guilty by legal evidence has been preserved. Thus, it is Indianised version of admixture of English Criminal Law (Common System of Law) and French Criminal Law (Continental System of Law). Now, in a prosecution launched under POCSO Act, age of the victim is very important because only upon the victim being below 18 years that she is a 'child' the stringent provisions of POCSO Act will apply and consent of the victim being immaterial under POCSO Act. POCSO Act is much more wider in scope in prosecuting an accused than prosecuting accused under Section 376 IPC. In this case, start of the offence was stated to be on 21. 2. 2015 in the house of PW-1, when her mother was away. During that time, PW-2 was studying VIII Standard in a school. It is stated that then she was 13 years old. Ex. P-3 School Certificate, Ex. P-8 Medical Certificate, Ex. P-9 age Certificate and the evidence of PW-7 School Headmaster and PW-5 Doctor beyond pale of any controversy establishes that at the time when the alleged occurrence took place, she was below 18 years. So she is a child within the meaning of Section 2(d) of POCSO Act. So the provisions of POCSO Act became applicable to this case. PW-2 is stated to be the victim of a sexual violence. Her evidence shall be treated as the evidence of an injured witness. If her evidence is consistent, cogent, unimpeachable unless there are acceptable reasons to implicate the accused, her evidence can be acted upon. The question of looking for corroboration for her evidence arises when her evidence appears to be murky. This is a rule of prudence and not a rule of law. Thus, corroboration cannot be insisted upon as a condition precedent to act on the testimony of a victim in a sexual violence case. But while appreciating their evidence, the Court must fathom out the reality of the situation and the truth of the allegations. While doing so, the Court cannot mistake every difference in evidence as a material contradiction. It cannot go blow out a contradiction beyond proportion. It cannot mistook a mole a mountain. In a sexual violence case, honour of two persons, namely, the victim as well as the accused is involved. When the allegations are very serious, the Court must be very serious of proving those allegations. Even to impute culpable mental state to the accused, there must be some material for the Court to have reason to believe the existence of such a fact (See Sections 29 and 30(2) of POCSO Act, 2012). Now, in this case, PW-2 the minor child had the countenance of the accused, a Book-Seller for the first time when he came to their house to market his books. PW-1 forewarned him not to visit again since there are ladies in her house. According to PW-2, on the fateful day, namely, on 21. 2. 2015, at about 2 p. m. , while she was alone in her house, the accused came, pressed her breasts, pushed her to the bed, sexually abused her private parts by placing his private part. Subsequently, on 28. 3. 2015 around 2 p. m. , when again the accused came to her house with similar motive, PW-2 raised alarm, the accused took to his heels, PW-1 came, PW-2 recounted the whole incident and also the earlier incident that took place on 21. 2. 2015. Thereafter, police complaint was lodged. Thereafter, medical examination was conducted and there was no presence of external injuries on her private part. It is pertinent to note that the actual physical violence was not on 28. 3. 2015. Even as per the version of PW-2, it was on 21. 2. 2015 and thus, by the time the medical examination was conducted more than a month had passed away, the evidence on her person had fade away. PW-2, being a child was under extreme trauma, normally a child like her, when placed in such grim situation, will not be forthcoming and will try to hide the shame. But, in this case, as per PW-2 when again the accused attempted to make her sexual assault on her, unable to put up with the shame, she cried and the accused was caught. Reading the evidence of PWs-2 and 1 and other witnesses and the complaint, the substratum of the case that the accused on the first occasion had sexually assaulted the victim has been brought out by the prosecution. The attempt of the defence to dilute the effect of the said evidence by clinging to some difference in the evidence of PWs-1 and 2 and in the statement of the victim girl recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C. which are not so material and are not significant enough to shake the veracity of the testimony of the victim girl has not been shattered by this adventure of the defence which has become a misadventure. Further, there is no convincing reason or motive supported by any material or acceptable reason to view the evidence of PW-2 with a jaundiced eye. The nature of the allegations made as against the accused is very serious. Thus, the fallout is that there is no prima facie case in favour of the petitioner. Thus, I am not inclined to grant him appeal bail. In view of the foregoings, this petition is dismissed. However, it is made clear that the observations made in this order are only for the purpose of finding out a prima facie case to take a decision in this petition and it has nothing to do with the disposal of the main Criminal Appeal.

[case 12]
Vasu @ Vasappa vs The State Of Karnataka By on 31 January, 2024 -1- NC: 2024: KHC: 4254 CRL. RP No. 1073 of 2017 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 31ST DAY OF JANUARY, 2024 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE S RACHAIAH CRIMINAL REVISION PETITION NO. 1073 OF 2017 BETWEEN: VASU @ VASAPPA S/O YANKAPPA AGED ABOUT 24 YEARS OCC: AGRICULTURIST R/O MACHIHALLI VILLAGE HARAPPANAHALLI TLAUK Digitally signed by SUDHA S Location: HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA. .. PETITIONER (BY SRI. R B DESHPANDE, ADVOCATE) AND: THE STATE OF KARNATAKA BY HARAPANAHALLI POLICE STATION DAVANAGERE DISTRICT - 583 131. (REPRESENTED BY STATE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR HIGH COURT BUILDINGS BENGALURU - 560 001. .. .RESPONDENT (BY SRI. RAHUL RAI K, HCGP) THIS CRL. RP IS FILED U/S. 397 R/W 401 CR. P. C PRAYING TO SET ASIDE THE JUDGMENT AND ORDER OF CONVICTION AND SENTENCE DATED 21. 07. 2017 PASSED BY THE I ADDITIONAL DISTRICT AND SESSIONS JUDGE, DAVANAGERE IN CRL. A. NO. 78/2013 PARTLY CONFIRMING THE ORDER DATED 11. 07. 2013 PASSED BY THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRST CLASS, HARAPANAHALLI IN C. C. NO. 378/2012 AND ETC. , THIS PETITION, COMING ON FOR FINAL HEARING, THIS DAY, THE COURT MADE THE FOLLOWING: -2- NC: 2024: KHC: 4254 CRL. RP No. 1073 of 2017 ORDER 1. This revision petition is arising out of the concurrent findings of the Courts below wherein the Trial Court recorded the conviction of the petitioner under Sections 504, 323, 353, 354, 506 of Indian Penal Code (for short 'IPC'). In the appeal, the Appellate Court allowed the appeal partly and set aside the judgment of conviction in respect of the provision under Section 504 of IPC and confirmed the sentences of the remaining provisions. Being aggrieved by the same, the petitioner herein has preferred this revision petition. 2. The rank of the parties in the Trial Court will be considered henceforth for convenience. Brief facts of the case are as under: 3. It is the case of the prosecution that, on 12. 12. 2011 at about 11. 00 a. m. , at Machihalli Koracharahatti village, Government Anganavadi school, when the complainant was discharging her duties as a Anganavadi Teacher, the accused went there and picked up quarrel with the complainant by stating that she should not have informed the marriage which he had intended to marry the minor girl, who is aged about 14 years, to the Women and Child Welfare Department, Harapanahalli. The accused abused in a filthy language and slapped her on the face and asked her to marry him and also assaulted her and pulled her saree and outraged her modesty. Further he has threatened her with dire consequences. Based on the complaint lodged by the complainant, the respondent / police have registered a case in Crime No. 175/2011 for the offences punishable under Sections 504, 323, 353, 354, 506 of IPC. After investigation, the respondent / police have submitted the charge sheet. 4. To prove the case of the prosecution, the prosecution examined 6 witnesses as PWs. 1 to 6 and got marked 7 documents as Exs. P1 to P7. Both the Courts have concurrently held that the petitioner committed the offences stated supra and recorded the conviction. Hence this revision petition. 5. Heard Shri R. B. Deshpande, learned counsel for the petitioner and Shri Rahul Rai K, learned High Court Government Pleader for the respondent - State. 6. It is the submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner that, the concurrent findings recorded by the Courts below in convicting the petitioner / accused appears to be perverse, illegal and the same is liable to be set aside. 7. It is further submitted that there are no independent witnesses to the said incident. The complainant deliberately exaggerated the incident as if the petitioner has outraged her modesty and narrated in her complaint which is beyond truth. It is further submitted that the prosecution has not produced any document to show that the marriage was fixed between the petitioner and the minor girl. In the absence of the said document, it is not appropriate to arrive at a conclusion that the marriage was fixed between the petitioner and the minor girl / victim and the same was informed to the Women and Child Welfare Department. The said aspect should have been considered by the Courts below before recording the conviction. 8. It is further submitted that the Trial Court convicted the petitioner on the basis of the surmises and conjectures which are alien to the criminal jurisprudence. Therefore, the findings recorded by the Courts below are required to be set aside. Making such submission, learned counsel for the petitioner prays to allow the petition. 9. Per contra, learned High Court Government Pleader (for short 'HCGP) for the respondent-State vehemently justified the concurrent findings and submitted that the name of the victim with whom the marriage of the accused was proposed to be carried out, was studying at Kasturba Residential School and the said proposed marriage was informed to the complainant. After receiving the said information, the complainant has informed the same to the Women and Child Welfare Department. Due to the said enmity, the petitioner has committed the offences as stated supra. Both the Courts have concurrently held that the petitioner has committed the offences and therefore, interference with the said findings may not be appropriate and not required. Making such submission, learned HCGP prays to dismiss the petition. 10. Having heard the submissions of learned counsels for the respective parties and also perused the findings of the Courts below in recording the conviction, it is the case of the prosecution that the marriage between the petitioner and the minor girl was fixed and it was brought to the notice of PW. 1 by the villagers. The complainant has informed the said fact to the higher authority. The petitioner after having learnt that PW. 1 has informed the same to the higher officials, he has gone to the office of PW. 1 and started abusing, assaulting and insulting PW. 1 in one or other pretext and said to have committed the offences as stated supra. 11. Having regard to the scope and ambit of the Revisional jurisdiction in interfering with the findings of the Courts below, it is appropriate to have a cursory look upon the evidence of all the witnesses, to ascertain as to whether any error committed by the Courts below in appreciating both oral and documentary evidence on record. 12. PW. 1 being a Teacher who was working at Machihalli Anganvadi. On 12. 12. 2011, when she was working at the Anganvadi, she has learnt that the marriage of the minor girl was fixed with the petitioner and she had informed the same to the higher officials who visited the house of the victim / minor girl. Being enraged of the visit of the higher officials to the house of the minor girl, the petitioner went to Anganvadi Centre and questioned her as to why she has stopped the marriage and said to have pulled her saree, assaulted her in front of others. By that time, CW. 4 intervened and pacified the matter. Thereafter, PW. 1 went to the police station and lodged a complaint against the petitioner. She was cross-examined at length and she has admitted that she had not gone to the marriage negotiations proposed to be held between the petitioner and the minor girl. In spite of lengthy cross-examination being subjected to PW. 1, PW. 1 withstood the same and supported the case of the prosecution. 13. PW. 2 - an independent witness, supported the case of the prosecution and narrated the incident as how the petitioner had assaulted PW. 1 and the manner in which he has outraged her modesty. When a specific question was put to her that she is a relative of PW. 1, she has admitted the relationship. However, she has assertively stated that the incident had taken place in her presence and she has seen the assault having been made by the petitioner. 14. PW. 3 - witness to spot panchanama, which is marked as Ex. P2 and he has supported the case of the prosecution. 15. PW. 4 also witness to Ex. P2 and supported the case of the prosecution. 16. PW. 5 - Doctor who treated PW. 1, issued wound certificate as per Ex. P5. As per the said wound certificate, PW. 1 sustained three injuries. Though several suggestions are made about the methods and possibilities of sustaining the injuries, he has supported the case of the prosecution. 17. PW. 6 was working as PSI, stated to have received the complaint on 12. 12. 2011 and conducted the investigation and submitted the charge sheet. 18. As per the averments of the complaint and also the evidence of PWs. 1 and 2, the incident said to have taken place on 12. 12. 2011, on the same day, a complaint came to be registered by the complainant. The FIR was sent to the Jurisdictional Magistrate on the same date at 05. 20 p. m. The evidence of PWs. 1 and 2 are clinching and reliable. These two witnesses have been subjected to lengthy cross-examination; however, nothing has been elicited to disbelieve their version. In addition to their evidence, the evidence of the Doctor - PW. 5 who treated PW. 1 and issued wound certificate as per Ex. P5 which clearly indicates that PW. 1 sustained injuries. The incident had taken place when she was discharging her official duty as Anganvadi Teacher. 19. The prosecution even though examined PWs. 1 and 2 as witnesses to the incident, no independent witnesses have neither been cited nor examined as witnesses to the incident. As per the case of the prosecution, the alleged incident said to have taken place in the village, if such incident had taken place in the Anganavadi, certainly many people would have gathered, either to witness the incident or to pacify the same. Not citing the independent witnesses in such incident by the Investigating Officer, which appears to be strange and unbelievable. 20. The motive for the said incident is that PW. 1 has informed to the higher officials regarding the proposed marriage of the petitioner with a minor girl. The prosecution has failed to produce any document to show that the marriage was fixed between the petitioner and the minor girl and further the prosecution failed to cite the officials of the Department of Women and Child Welfare to substantiate the case. When the prosecution has failed to establish the motive for commission of such offence, the commission of offence appears to be doubtful and it may be said that the prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond all reasonable doubt and therefore, the petitioner is entitled for acquittal in this case. However, the Courts below have failed to take note of these aspects and recorded the conviction which appears to be erroneous and not proper. Therefore, the conviction has to be set aside. 21. In the light of the above observations, I proceed to pass the following: ORDER (i) The Criminal Revision Petition is allowed. (ii) The judgment and order dated 11. 07. 2013 passed in CC. No. 378/2012 by the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Harapanahalli and the judgment and order dated 21. 07. 2017 passed in Crl. A. No. 78/2013 by the I Additional District and Sessions Judge, Davanagere are set aside. (iii) The petitioner is acquitted for the offences punishable under Sections 504, 323, 353, 354, 506 of IPC. (iv) Bail bonds executed, if any, stand cancelled. Sd/- JUDGE BSS List No. : 1 Sl No. : 49

[case 13]
Vasu @ Vasappa vs The State Of Karnataka By on 31 January, 2024 -1- NC: 2024: KHC: 4254 CRL. RP No. 1073 of 2017 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 31ST DAY OF JANUARY, 2024 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE S RACHAIAH CRIMINAL REVISION PETITION NO. 1073 OF 2017 BETWEEN: VASU @ VASAPPA S/O YANKAPPA AGED ABOUT 24 YEARS OCC: AGRICULTURIST R/O MACHIHALLI VILLAGE HARAPPANAHALLI TLAUK Digitally signed by SUDHA S Location: HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA. .. PETITIONER (BY SRI. R B DESHPANDE, ADVOCATE) AND: THE STATE OF KARNATAKA BY HARAPANAHALLI POLICE STATION DAVANAGERE DISTRICT - 583 131. (REPRESENTED BY STATE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR HIGH COURT BUILDINGS BENGALURU - 560 001. .. .RESPONDENT (BY SRI. RAHUL RAI K, HCGP) THIS CRL. RP IS FILED U/S. 397 R/W 401 CR. P. C PRAYING TO SET ASIDE THE JUDGMENT AND ORDER OF CONVICTION AND SENTENCE DATED 21. 07. 2017 PASSED BY THE I ADDITIONAL DISTRICT AND SESSIONS JUDGE, DAVANAGERE IN CRL. A. NO. 78/2013 PARTLY CONFIRMING THE ORDER DATED 11. 07. 2013 PASSED BY THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRST CLASS, HARAPANAHALLI IN C. C. NO. 378/2012 AND ETC. , THIS PETITION, COMING ON FOR FINAL HEARING, THIS DAY, THE COURT MADE THE FOLLOWING: -2- NC: 2024: KHC: 4254 CRL. RP No. 1073 of 2017 ORDER 1. This revision petition is arising out of the concurrent findings of the Courts below wherein the Trial Court recorded the conviction of the petitioner under Sections 504, 323, 353, 354, 506 of Indian Penal Code (for short 'IPC'). In the appeal, the Appellate Court allowed the appeal partly and set aside the judgment of conviction in respect of the provision under Section 504 of IPC and confirmed the sentences of the remaining provisions. Being aggrieved by the same, the petitioner herein has preferred this revision petition. 2. The rank of the parties in the Trial Court will be considered henceforth for convenience. Brief facts of the case are as under: 3. It is the case of the prosecution that, on 12. 12. 2011 at about 11. 00 a. m. , at Machihalli Koracharahatti village, Government Anganavadi school, when the complainant was discharging her duties as a Anganavadi Teacher, the accused went there and picked up quarrel with the complainant by stating that she should not have informed the marriage which he had intended to marry the minor girl, who is aged about 14 years, to the Women and Child Welfare Department, Harapanahalli. The accused abused in a filthy language and slapped her on the face and asked her to marry him and also assaulted her and pulled her saree and outraged her modesty. Further he has threatened her with dire consequences. Based on the complaint lodged by the complainant, the respondent / police have registered a case in Crime No. 175/2011 for the offences punishable under Sections 504, 323, 353, 354, 506 of IPC. After investigation, the respondent / police have submitted the charge sheet. 4. To prove the case of the prosecution, the prosecution examined 6 witnesses as PWs. 1 to 6 and got marked 7 documents as Exs. P1 to P7. Both the Courts have concurrently held that the petitioner committed the offences stated supra and recorded the conviction. Hence this revision petition. 5. Heard Shri R. B. Deshpande, learned counsel for the petitioner and Shri Rahul Rai K, learned High Court Government Pleader for the respondent - State. 6. It is the submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner that, the concurrent findings recorded by the Courts below in convicting the petitioner / accused appears to be perverse, illegal and the same is liable to be set aside. 7. It is further submitted that there are no independent witnesses to the said incident. The complainant deliberately exaggerated the incident as if the petitioner has outraged her modesty and narrated in her complaint which is beyond truth. It is further submitted that the prosecution has not produced any document to show that the marriage was fixed between the petitioner and the minor girl. In the absence of the said document, it is not appropriate to arrive at a conclusion that the marriage was fixed between the petitioner and the minor girl / victim and the same was informed to the Women and Child Welfare Department. The said aspect should have been considered by the Courts below before recording the conviction. 8. It is further submitted that the Trial Court convicted the petitioner on the basis of the surmises and conjectures which are alien to the criminal jurisprudence. Therefore, the findings recorded by the Courts below are required to be set aside. Making such submission, learned counsel for the petitioner prays to allow the petition. 9. Per contra, learned High Court Government Pleader (for short 'HCGP) for the respondent-State vehemently justified the concurrent findings and submitted that the name of the victim with whom the marriage of the accused was proposed to be carried out, was studying at Kasturba Residential School and the said proposed marriage was informed to the complainant. After receiving the said information, the complainant has informed the same to the Women and Child Welfare Department. Due to the said enmity, the petitioner has committed the offences as stated supra. Both the Courts have concurrently held that the petitioner has committed the offences and therefore, interference with the said findings may not be appropriate and not required. Making such submission, learned HCGP prays to dismiss the petition. 10. Having heard the submissions of learned counsels for the respective parties and also perused the findings of the Courts below in recording the conviction, it is the case of the prosecution that the marriage between the petitioner and the minor girl was fixed and it was brought to the notice of PW. 1 by the villagers. The complainant has informed the said fact to the higher authority. The petitioner after having learnt that PW. 1 has informed the same to the higher officials, he has gone to the office of PW. 1 and started abusing, assaulting and insulting PW. 1 in one or other pretext and said to have committed the offences as stated supra. 11. Having regard to the scope and ambit of the Revisional jurisdiction in interfering with the findings of the Courts below, it is appropriate to have a cursory look upon the evidence of all the witnesses, to ascertain as to whether any error committed by the Courts below in appreciating both oral and documentary evidence on record. 12. PW. 1 being a Teacher who was working at Machihalli Anganvadi. On 12. 12. 2011, when she was working at the Anganvadi, she has learnt that the marriage of the minor girl was fixed with the petitioner and she had informed the same to the higher officials who visited the house of the victim / minor girl. Being enraged of the visit of the higher officials to the house of the minor girl, the petitioner went to Anganvadi Centre and questioned her as to why she has stopped the marriage and said to have pulled her saree, assaulted her in front of others. By that time, CW. 4 intervened and pacified the matter. Thereafter, PW. 1 went to the police station and lodged a complaint against the petitioner. She was cross-examined at length and she has admitted that she had not gone to the marriage negotiations proposed to be held between the petitioner and the minor girl. In spite of lengthy cross-examination being subjected to PW. 1, PW. 1 withstood the same and supported the case of the prosecution. 13. PW. 2 - an independent witness, supported the case of the prosecution and narrated the incident as how the petitioner had assaulted PW. 1 and the manner in which he has outraged her modesty. When a specific question was put to her that she is a relative of PW. 1, she has admitted the relationship. However, she has assertively stated that the incident had taken place in her presence and she has seen the assault having been made by the petitioner. 14. PW. 3 - witness to spot panchanama, which is marked as Ex. P2 and he has supported the case of the prosecution. 15. PW. 4 also witness to Ex. P2 and supported the case of the prosecution. 16. PW. 5 - Doctor who treated PW. 1, issued wound certificate as per Ex. P5. As per the said wound certificate, PW. 1 sustained three injuries. Though several suggestions are made about the methods and possibilities of sustaining the injuries, he has supported the case of the prosecution. 17. PW. 6 was working as PSI, stated to have received the complaint on 12. 12. 2011 and conducted the investigation and submitted the charge sheet. 18. As per the averments of the complaint and also the evidence of PWs. 1 and 2, the incident said to have taken place on 12. 12. 2011, on the same day, a complaint came to be registered by the complainant. The FIR was sent to the Jurisdictional Magistrate on the same date at 05. 20 p. m. The evidence of PWs. 1 and 2 are clinching and reliable. These two witnesses have been subjected to lengthy cross-examination; however, nothing has been elicited to disbelieve their version. In addition to their evidence, the evidence of the Doctor - PW. 5 who treated PW. 1 and issued wound certificate as per Ex. P5 which clearly indicates that PW. 1 sustained injuries. The incident had taken place when she was discharging her official duty as Anganvadi Teacher. 19. The prosecution even though examined PWs. 1 and 2 as witnesses to the incident, no independent witnesses have neither been cited nor examined as witnesses to the incident. As per the case of the prosecution, the alleged incident said to have taken place in the village, if such incident had taken place in the Anganawadi, certainly many people would have gathered, either to witness the incident or to pacify the same. Not citing the independent witnesses in such incident by the Investigating Officer, which appears to be strange and unbelievable. 20. The motive for the said incident is that PW. 1 has informed to the higher officials regarding the proposed marriage of the petitioner with a minor girl. The prosecution has failed to produce any document to show that the marriage was fixed between the petitioner and the minor girl and further the prosecution failed to cite the officials of the Department of Women and Child Welfare to substantiate the case. When the prosecution has failed to establish the motive for commission of such offence, the commission of offence appears to be doubtful and it may be said that the prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond all reasonable doubt and therefore, the petitioner is entitled for acquittal in this case. However, the Courts below have failed to take note of these aspects and recorded the conviction which appears to be erroneous and not proper. Therefore, the conviction has to be set aside. 21. In the light of the above observations, I proceed to pass the following: ORDER (i) The Criminal Revision Petition is allowed. (ii) The judgment and order dated 11. 07. 2013 passed in CC. No. 378/2012 by the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Harapanahalli and the judgment and order dated 21. 07. 2017 passed in Crl. A. No. 78/2013 by the I Additional District and Sessions Judge, Davanagere are set aside. (iii) The petitioner is acquitted for the offences punishable under Sections 504, 323, 353, 354, 506 of IPC. (iv) Bail bonds executed, if any, stand cancelled. Sd/- JUDGE BSS List No. : 1 Sl No. : 49

[case 14]
Vasu @ Vasappa vs The State Of Karnataka By on 31 January, 2024 -1- NC: 2024: KHC: 4254 CRL. RP No. 1073 of 2017 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 31ST DAY OF JANUARY, 2024 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE S RACHAIAH CRIMINAL REVISION PETITION NO. 1073 OF 2017 BETWEEN: VASU @ VASAPPA S/O YANKAPPA AGED ABOUT 24 YEARS OCC: AGRICULTURIST R/O MACHIHALLI VILLAGE HARAPPANAHALLI TLAUK Digitally signed by SUDHA S Location: HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA. .. PETITIONER (BY SRI. R B DESHPANDE, ADVOCATE) AND: THE STATE OF KARNATAKA BY HARAPANAHALLI POLICE STATION DAVANAGERE DISTRICT - 583 131. (REPRESENTED BY STATE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR HIGH COURT BUILDINGS BENGALURU - 560 001. .. .RESPONDENT (BY SRI. RAHUL RAI K, HCGP) THIS CRL. RP IS FILED U/S. 397 R/W 401 CR. P. C PRAYING TO SET ASIDE THE JUDGMENT AND ORDER OF CONVICTION AND SENTENCE DATED 21. 07. 2017 PASSED BY THE I ADDITIONAL DISTRICT AND SESSIONS JUDGE, DAVANAGERE IN CRL. A. NO. 78/2013 PARTLY CONFIRMING THE ORDER DATED 11. 07. 2013 PASSED BY THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRST CLASS, HARAPANAHALLI IN C. C. NO. 378/2012 AND ETC. , THIS PETITION, COMING ON FOR FINAL HEARING, THIS DAY, THE COURT MADE THE FOLLOWING: -2- NC: 2024: KHC: 4254 CRL. RP No. 1073 of 2017 ORDER 1. This revision petition is arising out of the concurrent findings of the Courts below wherein the Trial Court recorded the conviction of the petitioner under Sections 504, 323, 353, 354, 506 of Indian Penal Code (for short 'IPC'). In the appeal, the Appellate Court allowed the appeal partly and set aside the judgment of conviction in respect of the provision under Section 504 of IPC and confirmed the sentences of the remaining provisions. Being aggrieved by the same, the petitioner herein has preferred this revision petition. 2. The rank of the parties in the Trial Court will be considered henceforth for convenience. Brief facts of the case are as under: 3. It is the case of the prosecution that, on 12. 12. 2011 at about 11. 00 a. m. , at Machihalli Koracharahatti village, Government Anganavadi school, when the complainant was discharging her duties as a Anganavadi Teacher, the accused went there and picked up quarrel with the complainant by stating that she should not have informed the marriage which he had intended to marry the minor girl, who is aged about 14 years, to the Women and Child Welfare Department, Harapanahalli. The accused abused in a filthy language and slapped her on the face and asked her to marry him and also assaulted her and pulled her saree and outraged her modesty. Further he has threatened her with dire consequences. Based on the complaint lodged by the complainant, the respondent / police have registered a case in Crime No. 175/2011 for the offences punishable under Sections 504, 323, 353, 354, 506 of IPC. After investigation, the respondent / police have submitted the charge sheet. 4. To prove the case of the prosecution, the prosecution examined 6 witnesses as PWs. 1 to 6 and got marked 7 documents as Exs. P1 to P7. Both the Courts have concurrently held that the petitioner committed the offences stated supra and recorded the conviction. Hence this revision petition. 5. Heard Shri R. B. Deshpande, learned counsel for the petitioner and Shri Rahul Rai K, learned High Court Government Pleader for the respondent - State. 6. It is the submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner that, the concurrent findings recorded by the Courts below in convicting the petitioner / accused appears to be perverse, illegal and the same is liable to be set aside. 7. It is further submitted that there are no independent witnesses to the said incident. The complainant deliberately exaggerated the incident as if the petitioner has outraged her modesty and narrated in her complaint which is beyond truth. It is further submitted that the prosecution has not produced any document to show that the marriage was fixed between the petitioner and the minor girl. In the absence of the said document, it is not appropriate to arrive at a conclusion that the marriage was fixed between the petitioner and the minor girl / victim and the same was informed to the Women and Child Welfare Department. The said aspect should have been considered by the Courts below before recording the conviction. 8. It is further submitted that the Trial Court convicted the petitioner on the basis of the surmises and conjectures which are alien to the criminal jurisprudence. Therefore, the findings recorded by the Courts below are required to be set aside. Making such submission, learned counsel for the petitioner prays to allow the petition. 9. Per contra, learned High Court Government Pleader (for short 'HCGP) for the respondent-State vehemently justified the concurrent findings and submitted that the name of the victim with whom the marriage of the accused was proposed to be carried out, was studying at Kasturba Residential School and the said proposed marriage was informed to the complainant. After receiving the said information, the complainant has informed the same to the Women and Child Welfare Department. Due to the said enmity, the petitioner has committed the offences as stated supra. Both the Courts have concurrently held that the petitioner has committed the offences and therefore, interference with the said findings may not be appropriate and not required. Making such submission, learned HCGP prays to dismiss the petition. 10. Having heard the submissions of learned counsels for the respective parties and also perused the findings of the Courts below in recording the conviction, it is the case of the prosecution that the marriage between the petitioner and the minor girl was fixed and it was brought to the notice of PW. 1 by the villagers. The complainant has informed the said fact to the higher authority. The petitioner after having learnt that PW. 1 has informed the same to the higher officials, he has gone to the office of PW. 1 and started abusing, assaulting and insulting PW. 1 in one or other pretext and said to have committed the offences as stated supra. 11. Having regard to the scope and ambit of the Revisional jurisdiction in interfering with the findings of the Courts below, it is appropriate to have a cursory look upon the evidence of all the witnesses, to ascertain as to whether any error committed by the Courts below in appreciating both oral and documentary evidence on record. 12. PW. 1 being a Teacher who was working at Machihalli Anganvadi. On 12. 12. 2011, when she was working at the Anganvadi, she has learnt that the marriage of the minor girl was fixed with the petitioner and she had informed the same to the higher officials who visited the house of the victim / minor girl. Being enraged of the visit of the higher officials to the house of the minor girl, the petitioner went to Anganvadi Centre and questioned her as to why she has stopped the marriage and said to have pulled her saree, assaulted her in front of others. By that time, CW. 4 intervened and pacified the matter. Thereafter, PW. 1 went to the police station and lodged a complaint against the petitioner. She was cross-examined at length and she has admitted that she had not gone to the marriage negotiations proposed to be held between the petitioner and the minor girl. In spite of lengthy cross-examination being subjected to PW. 1, PW. 1 withstood the same and supported the case of the prosecution. 13. PW. 2 - an independent witness, supported the case of the prosecution and narrated the incident as how the petitioner had assaulted PW. 1 and the manner in which he has outraged her modesty. When a specific question was put to her that she is a relative of PW. 1, she has admitted the relationship. However, she has assertively stated that the incident had taken place in her presence and she has seen the assault having been made by the petitioner. 14. PW. 3 - witness to spot panchanama, which is marked as Ex. P2 and he has supported the case of the prosecution. 15. PW. 4 also witness to Ex. P2 and supported the case of the prosecution. 16. PW. 5 - Doctor who treated PW. 1, issued wound certificate as per Ex. P5. As per the said wound certificate, PW. 1 sustained three injuries. Though several suggestions are made about the methods and possibilities of sustaining the injuries, he has supported the case of the prosecution. 17. PW. 6 was working as PSI, stated to have received the complaint on 12. 12. 2011 and conducted the investigation and submitted the charge sheet. 18. As per the averments of the complaint and also the evidence of PWs. 1 and 2, the incident said to have taken place on 12. 12. 2011, on the same day, a complaint came to be registered by the complainant. The FIR was sent to the Jurisdictional Magistrate on the same date at 05. 20 p. m. The evidence of PWs. 1 and 2 are clinching and reliable. These two witnesses have been subjected to lengthy cross-examination; however, nothing has been elicited to disbelieve their version. In addition to their evidence, the evidence of the Doctor - PW. 5 who treated PW. 1 and issued wound certificate as per Ex. P5 which clearly indicates that PW. 1 sustained injuries. The incident had taken place when she was discharging her official duty as Anganvadi Teacher. 19. The prosecution even though examined PWs. 1 and 2 as witnesses to the incident, no independent witnesses have neither been cited nor examined as witnesses to the incident. As per the case of the prosecution, the alleged incident said to have taken place in the village, if such incident had taken place in the Anganvadi, certainly many people would have gathered, either to witness the incident or to pacify the same. Not citing the independent witnesses in such incident by the Investigating Officer, which appears to be strange and unbelievable. 20. The motive for the said incident is that PW. 1 has informed to the higher officials regarding the proposed marriage of the petitioner with a minor girl. The prosecution has failed to produce any document to show that the marriage was fixed between the petitioner and the minor girl and further the prosecution failed to cite the officials of the Department of Women and Child Welfare to substantiate the case. When the prosecution has failed to establish the motive for commission of such offence, the commission of offence appears to be doubtful and it may be said that the prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond all reasonable doubt and therefore, the petitioner is entitled for acquittal in this case. However, the Courts below have failed to take note of these aspects and recorded the conviction which appears to be erroneous and not proper. Therefore, the conviction has to be set aside. 21. In the light of the above observations, I proceed to pass the following: ORDER (i) The Criminal Revision Petition is allowed. (ii) The judgment and order dated 11. 07. 2013 passed in CC. No. 378/2012 by the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Harapanahalli and the judgment and order dated 21. 07. 2017 passed in Cml. A. No. 78/2013 by the I Additional District and Sessions Judge, Davanagere are set aside. (iii) The petitioner is acquitted for the offences punishable under Sections 504, 323, 353, 354, 506 of IPC. (iv) Bail bonds executed, if any, stand cancelled. Sd/- JUDGE BSS List No. : 1 Sl No. : 49

[case 15]
Vasu @ Vasappa vs The State Of Karnataka By on 31 January, 2024 -1- NC: 2024: KHC: 4254 CRL. RP No. 1073 of 2017 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 31ST DAY OF JANUARY, 2024 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE S RACHAIAH CRIMINAL REVISION PETITION NO. 1073 OF 2017 BETWEEN: VASU @ VASAPPA S/O YANKAPPA AGED ABOUT 24 YEARS OCC: AGRICULTURIST R/O MACHIHALLI VILLAGE HARAPPANAHALLI TLAUK Digitally signed by SUDHA S Location: HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA. .. PETITIONER (BY SRI. R B DESHPANDE, ADVOCATE) AND: THE STATE OF KARNATAKA BY HARAPANAHALLI POLICE STATION DAVANAGERE DISTRICT - 583 131. (REPRESENTED BY STATE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR HIGH COURT BUILDINGS BENGALURU - 560 001. .. .RESPONDENT (BY SRI. RAHUL RAI K, HCGP) THIS CRL. RP IS FILED U/S. 397 R/W 401 CR. P. C PRAYING TO SET ASIDE THE JUDGMENT AND ORDER OF CONVICTION AND SENTENCE DATED 21. 07. 2017 PASSED BY THE I ADDITIONAL DISTRICT AND SESSIONS JUDGE, DAVANAGERE IN CRL. A. NO. 78/2013 PARTLY CONFIRMING THE ORDER DATED 11. 07. 2013 PASSED BY THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE FIRST CLASS, HARAPANAHALLI IN C. C. NO. 378/2012 AND ETC. , THIS PETITION, COMING ON FOR FINAL HEARING, THIS DAY, THE COURT MADE THE FOLLOWING: -2- NC: 2024: KHC: 4254 CRL. RP No. 1073 of 2017 ORDER 1. This revision petition is arising out of the concurrent findings of the Courts below wherein the Trial Court recorded the conviction of the petitioner under Sections 504, 323, 353, 354, 506 of Indian Penal Code (for short 'IPC'). In the appeal, the Appellate Court allowed the appeal partly and set aside the judgment of conviction in respect of the provision under Section 504 of IPC and confirmed the sentences of the remaining provisions. Being aggrieved by the same, the petitioner herein has preferred this revision petition. 2. The rank of the parties in the Trial Court will be considered henceforth for convenience. Brief facts of the case are as under: 3. It is the case of the prosecution that, on 12. 12. 2011 at about 11. 00 a. m. , at Machihalli Koracharahatti village, Government Anganavadi school, when the complainant was discharging her duties as a Anganavadi Teacher, the accused went there and picked up quarrel with the complainant by stating that she should not have informed the marriage which he had intended to marry the minor girl, who is aged about 14 years, to the Women and Child Welfare Department, Harapanahalli. The accused abused in a filthy language and slapped her on the face and asked her to marry him and also assaulted her and pulled her saree and outraged her modesty. Further he has threatened her with dire consequences. Based on the complaint lodged by the complainant, the respondent / police have registered a case in Crime No. 175/2011 for the offences punishable under Sections 504, 323, 353, 354, 506 of IPC. After investigation, the respondent / police have submitted the charge sheet. 4. To prove the case of the prosecution, the prosecution examined 6 witnesses as PWs. 1 to 6 and got marked 7 documents as Exs. P1 to P7. Both the Courts have concurrently held that the petitioner committed the offences stated supra and recorded the conviction. Hence this revision petition. 5. Heard Shri R. B. Deshpande, learned counsel for the petitioner and Shri Rahul Rai K, learned High Court Government Pleader for the respondent - State. 6. It is the submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner that, the concurrent findings recorded by the Courts below in convicting the petitioner / accused appears to be perverse, illegal and the same is liable to be set aside. 7. It is further submitted that there are no independent witnesses to the said incident. The complainant deliberately exaggerated the incident as if the petitioner has outraged her modesty and narrated in her complaint which is beyond truth. It is further submitted that the prosecution has not produced any document to show that the marriage was fixed between the petitioner and the minor girl. In the absence of the said document, it is not appropriate to arrive at a conclusion that the marriage was fixed between the petitioner and the minor girl / victim and the same was informed to the Women and Child Welfare Department. The said aspect should have been considered by the Courts below before recording the conviction. 8. It is further submitted that the Trial Court convicted the petitioner on the basis of the surmises and conjectures which are alien to the criminal jurisprudence. Therefore, the findings recorded by the Courts below are required to be set aside. Making such submission, learned counsel for the petitioner prays to allow the petition. 9. Per contra, learned High Court Government Pleader (for short 'HCGP) for the respondent-State vehemently justified the concurrent findings and submitted that the name of the victim with whom the marriage of the accused was proposed to be carried out, was studying at Kasturba Residential School and the said proposed marriage was informed to the complainant. After receiving the said information, the complainant has informed the same to the Women and Child Welfare Department. Due to the said enmity, the petitioner has committed the offences as stated supra. Both the Courts have concurrently held that the petitioner has committed the offences and therefore, interference with the said findings may not be appropriate and not required. Making such submission, learned HCGP prays to dismiss the petition. 10. Having heard the submissions of learned counsels for the respective parties and also perused the findings of the Courts below in recording the conviction, it is the case of the prosecution that the marriage between the petitioner and the minor girl was fixed and it was brought to the notice of PW. 1 by the villagers. The complainant has informed the said fact to the higher authority. The petitioner after having learnt that PW. 1 has informed the same to the higher officials, he has gone to the office of PW. 1 and started abusing, assaulting and insulting PW. 1 in one or other pretext and said to have committed the offences as stated supra. 11. Having regard to the scope and ambit of the Revisional jurisdiction in interfering with the findings of the Courts below, it is appropriate to have a cursory look upon the evidence of all the witnesses, to ascertain as to whether any error committed by the Courts below in appreciating both oral and documentary evidence on record. 12. PW. 1 being a Teacher who was working at Machihalli Anganvadi. On 12. 12. 2011, when she was working at the Anganvadi, she has learnt that the marriage of the minor girl was fixed with the petitioner and she had informed the same to the higher officials who visited the house of the victim / minor girl. Being enraged of the visit of the higher officials to the house of the minor girl, the petitioner went to Anganvadi Centre and questioned her as to why she has stopped the marriage and said to have pulled her saree, assaulted her in front of others. By that time, CW. 4 intervened and pacified the matter. Thereafter, PW. 1 went to the police station and lodged a complaint against the petitioner. She was cross-examined at length and she has admitted that she had not gone to the marriage negotiations proposed to be held between the petitioner and the minor girl. In spite of lengthy cross-examination being subjected to PW. 1, PW. 1 withstood the same and supported the case of the prosecution. 13. PW. 2 - an independent witness, supported the case of the prosecution and narrated the incident as how the petitioner had assaulted PW. 1 and the manner in which he has outraged her modesty. When a specific question was put to her that she is a relative of PW. 1, she has admitted the relationship. However, she has assertively stated that the incident had taken place in her presence and she has seen the assault having been made by the petitioner. 14. PW. 3 - witness to spot panchanama, which is marked as Ex. P2 and he has supported the case of the prosecution. 15. PW. 4 also witness to Ex. P2 and supported the case of the prosecution. 16. PW. 5 - Doctor who treated PW. 1, issued wound certificate as per Ex. P5. As per the said wound certificate, PW. 1 sustained three injuries. Though several suggestions are made about the methods and possibilities of sustaining the injuries, he has supported the case of the prosecution. 17. PW. 6 was working as PSI, stated to have received the complaint on 12. 12. 2011 and conducted the investigation and submitted the charge sheet. 18. As per the averments of the complaint and also the evidence of PWs. 1 and 2, the incident said to have taken place on 12. 12. 2011, on the same day, a complaint came to be registered by the complainant. The FIR was sent to the Jurisdictional Magistrate on the same date at 05. 20 p. m. The evidence of PWs. 1 and 2 are clinching and reliable. These two witnesses have been subjected to lengthy cross-examination; however, nothing has been elicited to disbelieve their version. In addition to their evidence, the evidence of the Doctor - PW. 5 who treated PW. 1 and issued wound certificate as per Ex. P5 which clearly indicates that PW. 1 sustained injuries. The incident had taken place when she was discharging her official duty as Anganvadi Teacher. 19. The prosecution even though examined PWs. 1 and 2 as witnesses to the incident, no independent witnesses have neither been cited nor examined as witnesses to the incident. As per the case of the prosecution, the alleged incident said to have taken place in the village, if such incident had taken place in the Anganvadi, certainly many people would have gathered, either to witness the incident or to pacify the same. Not citing the independent witnesses in such incident by the Investigating Officer, which appears to be strange and unbelievable. 20. The motive for the said incident is that PW. 1 has informed to the higher officials regarding the proposed marriage of the petitioner with a minor girl. The prosecution has failed to produce any document to show that the marriage was fixed between the petitioner and the minor girl and further the prosecution failed to cite the officials of the Department of Women and Child Welfare to substantiate the case. When the prosecution has failed to establish the motive for commission of such offence, the commission of offence appears to be doubtful and it may be said that the prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond all reasonable doubt and therefore, the petitioner is entitled for acquittal in this case. However, the Courts below have failed to take note of these aspects and recorded the conviction which appears to be erroneous and not proper. Therefore, the conviction has to be set aside. 21. In the light of the above observations, I proceed to pass the following: ORDER (i) The Criminal Revision Petition is allowed. (ii) The judgment and order dated 11. 07. 2013 passed in CC. No. 378/2012 by the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Harapanahalli and the judgment and order dated 21. 07. 2017 passed in Crl. A. No. 78/2013 by the I Additional District and Sessions Judge, Davanagere are set aside. (iii) The petitioner is acquitted for the offences punishable under Sections 504, 323, 353, 354, 506 of IPC. (iv) Bail bonds executed, if any, stand cancelled. Sd/- JUDGE BSS List No. : 1 Sl No. : 49

[case 16]
Select precedent. .. Prahlad Singh Bhati v. NCT, DelhiMahipal v. Rajesh KumarRajesh Ranjan Yadav v. CBISelect precedent. .. Remove precedent markings
Learn how it works!
Filter precedents by opinion of the court
Relied by Party
Accepted by Court
Negatively Viewed by Court
No clear sentiment
[Cites 11, Cited by 0]
protection-of-life-and-liberty
wrongful-confinement
extension-of-code-to-extra-territorial-offences
bail filter: bail under section 8 of pocso act
Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month.
Kerala High Court
Abdul Khadir vs State Of Kerala on 31 May, 2021
Author: V Raja Vijayaraghavan
Bench: V Raja Vijayaraghavan
BAIL APPL. NO. 3485 OF 2021 1
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM
THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V
MONDAY, THE 31ST DAY OF MAY 2021 / 10TH JYAISHTA, 1943
BAIL APPL. NO. 3485 OF 2021
S. C. No. 629 of 2020 on the file of the Special Court for trial of offences
relating to atrocities against women and children including POCSO cases,
Additional Sessions Court 1, Alappuzha
SON OF ABDUL HAKKIM, RAMACHANDRAPUR, NEAR OKHIYA
MASJID KADAMTALI, MALDA, WEST BENGAL, NOW
RESIDING AT MUPPARUTHIL CHIRAYIL HOUSE, CARE OF
NIRANAM NORTH P. O. , NIRANAM VILLAGE, THIRUVALLA,
PATHANAMTHITTA DISTRICT
PATHANAMTHITTA, PIN - 689621
GOKUL DAS V. V. H.
RESPONDENT/STATE & DE FACTO COMPLAINANT:
STATE OF KERALA
THROUGH THE STATION HOUSE OFFICER,
ALAPPUZHA NORTH POLICE STATION,
REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR,
HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM
ERNAKULAM, PIN - 682031
SRI AJITH MURALI-PUBLIC PROSECUTOR
THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON
31. 05. 2021, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY DELIVERED THE
BAIL APPL. NO. 3485 OF 2021 2
This application is filed under Section 439 of the Cr. P. C.
2. The applicant is the sole accused in S. C. No. 629 of 2020 on the
file of the Special Court for trial of offences relating to atrocities against
women and children including POCSO cases, Additional Sessions Court 1,
Alappuzha registered under Sections 363, 370, 342, 376AB, 354 A of the
Indian Penal Code and under Sections 4 r/w 3(a), 5(m) r/w 6(1), 8 r/w 7,
10 r/w 9 (l) & (m) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,
3. A minor child aged about 4 years is the victim in the instant
case. The prosecution allegation is that on 30. 8. 2020 at noon, the
applicant, with intent to commit sexual assault of the minor child, entered
the house of the child and kissed her. Later on 31. 8. 2020 at about 9. 45
am, the applicant is alleged to have taken the child to the rear side of the
building No XXII/530 of Alappuzha Municipality and subjected the child to
penetrative sexual abuse.
4. The learned counsel appearing for the applicant submitted that
the applicant was arrested in connection with the aforesaid crime on
31. 8. 2020 and he has been in judicial custody since then. According to
BAIL APPL. NO. 3485 OF 2021 3
the learned counsel there is some delay in setting the law in motion which
renders the whole prosecution version on suspicion. It is further
submitted that now that the final report has been laid, further detention in
custody is unwarranted.
5. The learned Public Prosecutor on instructions submitted that the
investigation conducted would disclose that a child of tender age was
subjected to penetrative sexual abuse by the applicant. Referring to the
medical records, it was contended that the allegation is clearly
substantiated by the injuries noted by the doctor. The severity of the
allegations is highlighted by the learned Public Prosecutor to persuade this
Court to refuse bail to the applicants.
6. The principles, which the Court must consider while granting or
declining bail, have been stated by the Apex Court in a catena of cases. In
Prahlad Singh Bhati v. NCT, Delhi [(2001) 4 SCC 280], it was held
"The jurisdiction to grant bail has to be exercised on
the basis of well-settled principles having regard to
the circumstances of each case and not in an
arbitrary manner. While granting the bail, the court
has to keep in mind the nature of accusations, the
nature of the evidence in support thereof, the
severity of the punishment which conviction will
entail, the character, behaviour, means and standing
of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to
BAIL APPL. NO. 3485 OF 2021 4
the accused, reasonable possibility of securing the
presence of the accused at the trial, reasonable
apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with,
the larger interests of the public or State and similar
other considerations. It has also to be kept in mind
that for the purposes of granting the bail the
legislature has used the words "reasonable grounds
for believing" instead of "the evidence" which means
the court dealing with the grant of bail can only
satisfy itself as to whether there is a genuine case
against the accused and that the prosecution will be
able to produce prima facie evidence in support of
the charge. It is not expected, at this stage, to have
the evidence establishing the guilt of the accused
beyond reasonable doubt. "

[case 17]
Smt. Tammanna And Another vs State Of U. P. And 5 Others on 30 July, 2019
? Court No. - 42
Case: - HABEAS CORPUS WRIT PETITION No. - 723 of 2019
Petitioner: - Smt. Tammanna And Another
Respondent: - State Of U. P. And 5 Others
Counsel for Petitioner: - Ved Mani Sharma
Counsel for Respondent: - G. A.
Hon'ble Manoj Misra, J.
Hon'ble Virendra Kumar Srivastava, J.
Heard learned counsel for the petitioners; the learned A. G. A. for the respondents 1 to 5; and perused the record.
This habeas corpus petition has been filed with multiple prayers, one of them is that a writ in the nature of certiorari be issued quashing the order dated 06. 07. 2019 passed by the Child Welfare Committee, Shahjahanpur by which the corpus Tammanna has been placed in the care and protection of Children Protection Home (Girls), Hathaura Bujurg, Shahjahanpur.
A perusal of the record would reveal that Case Crime No. 149 of 2019 was registered at P. S. Jalalabad, District Shahjahanpur, under Sections 363, 366 I. P. C. and section 7/8 Pocso Act on the FIR lodged by Asif (respondent no. 6), father of the corpus, wherein it was alleged that Tamanna (minor daughter of the informant) was enticed away by accused persons including the petitioner no. 2. The corpus was recovered and produced before the Child Welfare Committee. The Child Welfare Committee found that the educational certificate of the victim disclosed her date of birth as 08. 05. 2003 though medical examination of the victim suggested that she was above 18 years. The Child Welfare Committee accorded primacy to the date of birth entered in the educational certificate and, as the victim had refused to go with her parents, directed her placement in the Child Protection Home (girls) in exercise of power conferred by Section 37 (1)(c) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (for short J. J. Act, 2015)
Learned counsel for the petitioners has submitted that in a Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 9222 of 2019, the arrest of the accused (petitioner no. 2) has been stayed after considering the statement of the victim and the date of birth in her adhar card as per which she is an adult.
Learned A. G. A. has submitted that entry of date of birth entered in the adhar card is not conclusive with regard to its holder and as the age of a child victim is to be determined by applying the principles embodied in Section 94 of the J. J. Act, 2015, under which, primacy is to be accorded to date of birth entered in educational certificate over medical evidence, the order of the Child Welfare Committee is not illegal or perverse so as to warrant issuance of writ of habeas corpus or to invoke the writ jurisdiction, particularly, when alternative remedy is available under Section 101 of the J. J. Act, 2015.
Having noticed the rival submissions, before we proceed to address the issues, it would be apposite to observe that the Apex Court had consistently been of the view that the principles applicable for determining the age of juvenile in conflict with law are to be applied for determining the age of child victim (vide Jarnail Singh Vs. State of Haryana, (2013) 7 SCC 263; State of M. P. Vs. Anoop Singh, (2015) 7 SCC 773; and Mahadeo Vs. State of Maharashtra, (2013) 14 SCC 637).
Section 94 of the J. J. Act, 2015 provides for presumption and determination of age. Sub-section (2) of section 94 of the J. J. Act, 2015, which is relevant, is extracted below:
"(2) In case, the Committee or the Board has reasonable grounds for doubt regarding whether the person brought before it is a child or not, the Committee or the Board, as the case may be, shall undertake the process of age determination, by seeking evidence by obtaining--
(i) the date of birth certificate from the school, or the matriculation or equivalent certificate from the concerned examination Board, if available; and in the absence thereof;
(ii) the birth certificate given by a corporation or a municipal authority or a panchayat;
(iii) and only in the absence of (i) and (ii) above, age shall be determined by an ossification test or any other latest medical age determination test conducted on the orders of the Committee or the Board:
Provided such age determination test conducted on the order of the Committee or the Board shall be completed within fifteen days from the date of such order. "
From above, it is clear that primacy is to be accorded to the date of birth certificate from the school, or the matriculation or equivalent certificate from the concerned examination Board, and, in the absence thereof, to the birth certificate given by a corporation or municipality or panchayat. Only in absence of above evidence, medical evidence is to be taken.
Section 37 (1) (c) of the J. J. Act, 2015 empowers the Child Welfare Committee to place a child in need of care and protection in a Children's Home or fit facility for temporary care.
Section 2 (14) of the J. J. Act, 2015 defines a child in need of care and protection. Clauses (iii), (viii) (xii) of sub-section (14) of Section 2 of the J. J. Act, 2015 are relevant for the purpose of deciding this case. The said clauses along with the opening part of sub-section (14) of section 2 of the J. J. Act, 2015 are extracted below:
"Section 2(14) "child in need of care and protection" means a child--
(iii) who resides with a person (whether a guardian of the child or not) and such person--
(a) has injured, exploited, abused or neglected the child or has violated any other law for the time being in force meant for the protection of child; or
(b) has threatened to kill, injure, exploit or abuse the child and there is a reasonable likelihood of the threat being carried out; or
(c) has killed, abused, neglected or exploited some other child or children and there is a reasonable likelihood of the child in question being killed, abused, exploited or neglected by that person; or

[case 18]
Smt. Tammanna And Another vs State Of U. P. And 5 Others on 30 July, 2019
? Court No. - 42
Case: - HABEAS CORPUS WRIT PETITION No. - 723 of 2019
Petitioner: - Smt. Tammanna And Another
Respondent: - State Of U. P. And 5 Others
Counsel for Petitioner: - Ved Mani Sharma
Counsel for Respondent: - G. A.
Hon'ble Manoj Misra, J.
Hon'ble Virendra Kumar Srivastava, J.
Heard learned counsel for the petitioners; the learned A. G. A. for the respondents 1 to 5; and perused the record.
This habeas corpus petition has been filed with multiple prayers, one of them is that a writ in the nature of certiorari be issued quashing the order dated 06. 07. 2019 passed by the Child Welfare Committee, Shahjahanpur by which the corpus Tammanna has been placed in the care and protection of Children Protection Home (Girls), Hathaura Bujurg, Shahjahanpur.
A perusal of the record would reveal that Case Crime No. 149 of 2019 was registered at P. S. Jalalabad, District Shahjahanpur, under Sections 363, 366 I. P. C. and section 7/8 Pocso Act on the FIR lodged by Asif (respondent no. 6), father of the corpus, wherein it was alleged that Tamanna (minor daughter of the informant) was enticed away by accused persons including the petitioner no. 2. The corpus was recovered and produced before the Child Welfare Committee. The Child Welfare Committee found that the educational certificate of the victim disclosed her date of birth as 08. 05. 2003 though medical examination of the victim suggested that she was above 18 years. The Child Welfare Committee accorded primacy to the date of birth entered in the educational certificate and, as the victim had refused to go with her parents, directed her placement in the Child Protection Home (girls) in exercise of power conferred by Section 37 (1)(c) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (for short J. J. Act, 2015)
Learned counsel for the petitioners has submitted that in a Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 9222 of 2019, the arrest of the accused (petitioner no. 2) has been stayed after considering the statement of the victim and the date of birth in her adhar card as per which she is an adult.
Learned A. G. A. has submitted that entry of date of birth entered in the adhar card is not conclusive with regard to its holder and as the age of a child victim is to be determined by applying the principles embodied in Section 94 of the J. J. Act, 2015, under which, primacy is to be accorded to date of birth entered in educational certificate over medical evidence, the order of the Child Welfare Committee is not illegal or perverse so as to warrant issuance of writ of habeas corpus or to invoke the writ jurisdiction, particularly, when alternative remedy is available under Section 101 of the J. J. Act, 2015.
Having noticed the rival submissions, before we proceed to address the issues, it would be apposite to observe that the Apex Court had consistently been of the view that the principles applicable for determining the age of juvenile in conflict with law are to be applied for determining the age of child victim (vide Jarnail Singh Vs. State of Haryana, (2013) 7 SCC 263; State of M. P. Vs. Anoop Singh, (2015) 7 SCC 773; and Mahadeo Vs. State of Maharashtra, (2013) 14 SCC 637).
Section 94 of the J. J. Act, 2015 provides for presumption and determination of age. Sub-section (2) of section 94 of the J. J. Act, 2015, which is relevant, is extracted below:
"(2) In case, the Committee or the Board has reasonable grounds for doubt regarding whether the person brought before it is a child or not, the Committee or the Board, as the case may be, shall undertake the process of age determination, by seeking evidence by obtaining--
(i) the date of birth certificate from the school, or the matriculation or equivalent certificate from the concerned examination Board, if available; and in the absence thereof;
(ii) the birth certificate given by a corporation or a municipal authority or a panchayat;
(iii) and only in the absence of (i) and (ii) above, age shall be determined by an ossification test or any other latest medical age determination test conducted on the orders of the Committee or the Board:
Provided such age determination test conducted on the order of the Committee or the Board shall be completed within fifteen days from the date of such order. "
From above, it is clear that primacy is to be accorded to the date of birth certificate from the school, or the matriculation or equivalent certificate from the concerned examination Board, and, in the absence thereof, to the birth certificate given by a corporation or municipality or panchayat. Only in absence of above evidence, medical evidence is to be taken.
Section 37 (1) (c) of the J. J. Act, 2015 empowers the Child Welfare Committee to place a child in need of care and protection in a Children's Home or fit facility for temporary care.
Section 2 (14) of the J. J. Act, 2015 defines a child in need of care and protection. Clauses (iii), (viii) (xii) of sub-section (14) of Section 2 of the J. J. Act, 2015 are relevant for the purpose of deciding this case. The said clauses along with the opening part of sub-section (14) of section 2 of the J. J. Act, 2015 are extracted below:
"Section 2(14) "child in need of care and protection" means a child--
(iii) who resides with a person (whether a guardian of the child or not) and such person--
(a) has injured, exploited, abused or neglected the child or has violated any other law for the time being in force meant for the protection of child; or
(b) has threatened to kill, injure, exploit or abuse the child and there is a reasonable likelihood of the threat being carried out; or
(c) has killed, abused, neglected or exploited some other child or children and there is a reasonable likelihood of the child in question being killed, abused, exploited or neglected by that person; or

[case 19]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Nikhil Sarathe vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 28 August, 2018 1 M. Cr. C. No. 16856 of 2017 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH PRINCIPAL SEAT AT JABALPUR Single Bench: Hon'ble Shri Rajeev Kumar Dubey, J. Misc. Criminal Case No. 16856/2017 Nikhil Sarathe vs. State of M. P. and Others -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shri Alok Bagrecha and Shri Pushpendra Dubey, learned counsel for the applicant. Shri Manish Awasthi, Govt. Advocate for the respondent/State. Shri Vivek Agrawal, learned counsel for the respondent no. 2/prosecutrix. None for the respondent No. 3/complainant though served. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ORDER Reserved on: 21/08/2018 Delivered on: /08/2018 This petition has been filed under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. seeking quashing of the F. I. R. of crime No. 293/2016 registered at PS Kotwali Bhopal for the offence punishable under Sections 363, 376, 120-B, 212 of IPC and Section 3, 4 of POCSO Act and consequential proceedings thereto. Brief facts of the case are that on 29/12/2016, the father of the prosecutrix lodged a report at P. S. Kotwali Bhopal averring that his daughter (prosecutrix) age about 17 years was not at home since six 'o'clock in the morning and she was not found even after enough search. Someone had abducted her. On that police registered crime No. 293/16 for the offence punishable under section 363 of I. P. C. and investigated the matter and during investigation on 23/01/17 police rescued the prosecutrix from the custody of applicant and recorded the statement of the prosecutrix. In her statement prosecutrix stated that she had known applicant Nikhil for the last five years and there was a love affair between them. On 29th December 2016, Nikhil had asked him to escape from the house in order to marry with him. On this, around 5-6 o'clock in the morning without informing her family members she went to the Hawa Mahal, where she met Nikhil who took her to Arya Samaj Mandir situated at Nehru Nagar, where both of them got married, then they went to Shirdi where they stayed for four or five days. Thereafter they came back to Bhopal and stayed there for 5-6 days at Nikhil's friend's house situated at Neelbad area in Bhopal. During that period Nikhil also made physical relationship with her, after which Nikhil's friend Shubham (co-accused) took them to Jabalpur, where they stayed in the house of a person, who happened to be an acquaintance of Shubham, as a guest for 6-7 days. There too applicant Nikhil Had sex with her four to five times. On that police also added offences under section 368, 376, 120-B, 212 of IPC and Section 3, 4, 5, 6, 11 (i) and 12 of POCSO Act and after investigation of the crime police filed charge-sheet against the applicant. On that charge-sheet S. T. No. 28/18 was registered. Applicant is facing trial in that case before 7 th A. S. J. Bhopal and filed this petition for quashing the F. I. R. of the crime No. 293/16 registered at P. S. Kotwali Bhopal and the proceedings of S. T. No. 28/18. Learned counsel for the applicant submitted that the prosecutrix was major at the time of incident and went with the applicant on her own will. In the birth certificate of the prosecutrix, her date of birth is mentioned as 30/11/1998. According to that certificate, prosecutrix was major at the time of incident. The prosecutrix in her statement recorded by the JMFC under Section 164 of Cr. P. C. also deposed that she went with the applicant at her own will and she had married with applicant and is living with him. Since prosecutrix was major at the time of incident and went with applicant own her on will, no offences under Section 363, 376, 120-B, 212 of IPC and Section 3, 4 of POCSO Act is made out against the applicant. He further submitted that if it is assumed that the age of the prosecutrix was 17 years two months at the time of incident as appears on the basis of school entry register produced by the prosecution along with the charge sheet even then no offence is made out against the applicant from the charge-sheet because prosecutrix went with the applicant on her own will. In this regard, he also placed reliance on Delhi High Court judgment passed in Laxmi Devi & Anr. ; Maha Dev & Devender @ Babli v. State reported in (2012) DLT 619 and Apex Court judgment passed in Satish Mehra Vs. State reported in 2013 CrLJ 411, Rajeev Thaper Vs. Madan Lal reported in (2013) 3 SCC 330 and Independent thought Vs. Union of India reported in (2017) 10 SCC 800, and State of Karnataka Vs. L. Muniswamy and others reported in 1977 CRLJ 1125. Learned counsel for the prosecutrix also submitted that prosecutrix was major at the time of incident and went with the applicant on her own will and at present she is living with the applicant and also married with the him, so offence registered against the applicant should be quashed. Learned counsel for the State opposed the prayer and submitted that according to school entry register the date of birth of the prosecutrix is 23/10/1999 and on that basis the age of the prosecutrix was below 18 years at the time of incident i. e. 29/12/16 and she was minor at the time of incident. Applicant abducted the prosecutrix and made sexual relations with her, so offence under Section 368, 376 of IPC and Section 3/ 4 and 12 of POCSO is clearly made out against the applicant and prays for rejection of petition. This Court has gone through the record and arguments put forth by the learned counsel for both the parties. In the entry of school register, the date of prosecutrix is mentioned 23/10/1999 and on that basis the age of the prosecutrix appears to be below 18 years at the time of incident i. e. 29/12/16 and she was minor at the time of incident. Applicant took the prosecutrix and made sexual relations with her. Although applicant produced Birth certificate of the prosecutrix in which the date of birth of prosecutrix is mentioned as 30/11/1998 but authenticity of that certificate has to be tested and it requires evidence to decide. So at this stage only on that basis it can not be said that prosecutrix was major at the time of incident. Fact of the cases relied on by the learned counsel of the applicant do not match with the instant case. The case Laxmi Devi & Anr. ; Maha Dev & Devender @ Babli v. State (supra) relate to the incidents that occurred before November 2012 when POCSO Act was not in force. While this incident occurred on 29/12/2016 when POCSO Act had come into force and according to section 3 of the POCSO Act intercourse with a woman below 18 years of age is the offence irrespective of the fact that she is a wife of accused. in the case of Satish Mehra v. State (NCT of Delhi), (Supra) apex court held "charge sheet only quashed if the attending facts and circumstances satisfy the narrow test that even accepting all the allegations levelled by the prosecution, no offence is disclosed. While in this case offence under POCSO Act is prima facie made out against applicant. Because on the basis of school entry register and the statement of parents of the prosecutrix her age appeared to be below 18 years. In the case of Rajeev Thaper Vs. Madan Lal (supra) apex court held "To invoke its inherent jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC, the High Court has to be fully satisfied that the material produced by the accused is such that would lead to the conclusion that his/their defence is based on sound, reasonable, and indubitable facts; but the material relied upon by the accused should be of sterling and impeccable quality. " While in this case the authenticity of birth certificate of the prosecutrix has to be proved which requires evidence. On the other hand prosecution produced entry of school admission register to prove the age of prosecutrix in which date of birth of prosecutrix is mentioned as 23/10/1999. In the case of Independent thought Vs. Union of India (Supra) apex court held that Exception 2 to Section 375 I. P. C. in so far as it relates to a girl child below 18 years is liable to be struck down on the following grounds: - (i) it is arbitrary, capricious, whimsical and violative of the rights of the girl child and not fair, just and reasonable and, therefore, violative of Article 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution of India. In the case of State of Karnataka Vs. L. Muniswamy and others (supra) Apex court held that High Court is entitled to quash a proceeding if it comes to conclusion that allowing the proceeding to continue would be an abuse of the process of the court or that the ends of the justice requires that the preceding out to quashed. While in this case if it is proved that prosecutrix was below 18 years of age at the time of incident, there is sufficient evidence to proceed against the applicant in the case. So these judgements do not help applicant much. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Yogendra Yadav and others vs. State of Jharkhand and another (2014) 9 SCC 653 held that offences which involve moral turpitude, grave offences like rape murder cannot be effaced by quashing proceedings under section 482 because they have harmful effect on society and are not restricted to two individuals or group quashing of such offences may send a wrong signal to society. In the case in hand prosecution produced the entry of school register along with charge sheet in which date of birth of prosecutrix is mentioned 23/10/1999 and on that basis the age of the prosecutrix appears to be below 18 years at the time of incident i. e. 29/12/16 and she was minor at the time of incident. Applicant took the prosecutrix along with him and made sexual relations with her. So from the charge sheet offence under section 3/4 of the POCSO Act is prima facie made out against the applicant. So FIR and the proceedings of S. T. No. 28/18 can not be quashed at this stage. Although applicant produced Birth certificate of the prosecutrix in which the date of birth of prosecutrix is mentioned as 30/11/1998 but authenticity of that certificate has to be tested and it requires evidence to decide. Applicant is free to raise this issue before trial court at the appropriate stage and produce the evidence in support of his defence which will consider by the trial court on merits. Accordingly, petition is disposed of. (Rajeev Kumar Dubey) Judge vs Digitally signed by VARSHA SINGH Date: 2018. 08. 29 17: 55: 33 +05'30'

[case 20]
Mahalakshmy P. C vs State Of Kerala on 21 February, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE C. JAYACHANDRAN FRIDAY, THE 21ST DAY OF FEBRUARY 2025 / 2ND PHALGUNA, 1946 CRL. MC NO. 925 OF 2024 CRIME NO. 811/2021 OF BINANIPURAM POLICE STATION, ERNAKULAM IN CC NO. 29 OF 2022 OF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF FIRST CLASS-II, ALUVA PETITIONERS/ACCUSED: 1 MAHALAKSHMY P. C AGED 34 YEARS PULLARKADU HOUSE, MADAPLATHURUTH, MOOTHAKUNNAM P. O, ERANAKULAM DISTRICT. , PIN - 683516 2 CHITHARANJAN AGED 66 YEARS PULLARKADU HOUSE, MADAPLATHURUTH, MOOTHAKUNNAM P. O, ERANAKULAM DISTRICT. , PIN - 683516 3 SIVESWAR P. C AGED 30 YEARS PULLARKADU HOUSE, MADAPLATHURUTH, MOOTHAKUNNAM P. O, ERANAKULAM DISTRICT, PIN - 683516 BY ADV N. P. PRAJEESH RESPONDENTS/COMPLAINANT: 1 STATE OF KERALA REPRESENTED BY THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM, KOCHI. , PIN - 682031 2 SARASAMMA W/O MOHANAN, MOOPPAN PARAMBIL HOUSE, MUPPATHADAM, KADUNGALLUR P. O, ERANAKULAM DISTRICT, PIN-683110 Crl. M. C. No. 925 of 2024 2025: KER: 15509 -2- THIS CRIMINAL MISC. CASE HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 21. 02. 2025, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: Crl. M. C. No. 925 of 2024 2025: KER: 15509 -3- C. JAYACHANDRAN, J. ------------------------------------ Crl. M. C. No. 925 of 2024 ------------------------------------ Dated, this the 21st day of February, 2025 ORDER The petitioners herein are the accused persons in Crime no. 811/2021 of Binanipuram Police Station (Annexure-I), now pending as C. C. No. 29/2022 before the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court-II, Aluva. The petitioners seek quashment of the said crime and all further proceedings therein. 2. Heard the learned Counsel for the petitioners and the learned Public Prosecutor. Perused the records. 3. Learned Counsel for the petitioners submits that, the 1st petitioner is the legally wedded wife of one Pramod, who is the son of the defacto complainant in the instant crime. There were matrimonial disputes and due to harassment, the 1st petitioner/1st accused left the matrimonial home and started residing in her parental home. Petitioners 2 and 3 are her father and brother respectively, who were accused nos. 2 and 3 in the subject Crl. M. C. No. 925 of 2024 2025: KER: 15509 -4- crime. The 1st petitioner got information that during the subsistence of marriage with her, her husband Pramod is going to remarry. Accordingly, she lodged Annexure-V complaint before the jurisdictional Police, seeking police protection, so as to enable her to go back to the matrimonial home and reside there. Accordingly, on 06. 07. 2021, at 2 p. m, the petitioners reached the matrimonial home, where she was cruelly manhandled by the present defacto complainant, her husband and neighbours. A case has been registered in respect of the incident as Crime no. 810/2021 (Annexure-VII). According to the learned Counsel, the instant crime bearing no. 811/2021 is a counter blast to the same. It was also pointed out that the allegations leveled in the F. I. S. are trivial in nature, as against the 1st accused. There is no allegation, whatsoever, as against accused nos. 2 and 3 (petitioners 2 and 3), except that they have not opposed the acts of the 1st petitioner/1st accused. Learned Counsel would submit that, a perusal of Annexure-VII F. I. R. would indicate that it was the petitioners herein, who were abused and manhandled by the defacto complainant and others. Crl. M. C. No. 925 of 2024 2025: KER: 15509 -5- 4. This application was seriously opposed by the learned Public Prosecutor. 5. Having heard the learned Counsel appearing for the respective parties, this Court finds that the Crl. M. C. is liable to be allowed in part, as against petitioners 2 and 3. This Court perused the F. I. S. , which forms part of Annexure-I F. I. R. The allegations constituting the crime are extracted here below: " (06. 11. 2009)       ,    .            .          .                 .                         .               . " Crl. M. C. No. 925 of 2024 2025: KER: 15509 -6- 6. It could be seen from the above that the solitary allegation against the petitioners 2 and 3 (accused nos. 2 and 3) is that, they spoke in support of the 1 st accused/1st petitioner. The offences alleged are under Sections 323, 447, 341, read with Section 34 of the Penal code. This Court fails to understand as to how the Investigating Officer has concluded, on the basis of the above referred solitary statement contained in the F. I. S. , that accused nos. 2 and 3 have committed the offences alleged. This Court cannot, but observe that the Investigating Officer was so casual in arriving at the complicity of petitioners 2 and 3 (accused nos. 2 and 3). There exists no material, which would tend to implicate the said persons. It may have to be observed that the Investigating Officer has acted in tune with the sinister motive of the defacto complainant, insofar as their allegations against petitioners 2 and 3 are concerned. Thinking from another angle, the mischief is done by the Investigating Officer; and not by the defacto complainant. The defacto complainant has only stated the true facts. It was for the Investigating Officer to arrive at a conclusion that such allegation that petitioners 2 and 3 spoke in favour of A1 (daughter of A2 and sister of A3) was only a natural reaction, incapable of constituting any crime as alleged. 7. The outcome of the above discussion is that the proceedings against petitioners 2 and 3 vide Crime no. 811/2024 - now pending as C. C. no. 29/2022 before the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court-II, Aluva - cannot be sustained. The same is hereby quashed. 8. Coming to 1st petitioner/1st accused, there is an allegation that she caught hold of the hand of the defacto complainant and pushed down herself and her son Pramod. This Court is not in a position to ascertain the veracity of the submission that the said allegations, as also, the instant crime, is only a counter blast to Annexure-VII crime. That is a matter which has to be evolved during the course of evidence. In the circumstances, the prayer sought for, insofar as the 1 st petitioner/1st accused is concerned, cannot be allowed and the Crl. M. C. will stand dismissed as against the 1st petitioner/1st accused. However, the same will stand allowed, as already indicated, against petitioners 2 and 3. 9. Learned Counsel for the petitioners submits that, the 1st petitioner/1st accused is having a child, aged ten years and her personal appearance may be exempted, except for crucial dates. The said relief is only to be allowed. Accordingly, the personal appearance of the 1st petitioner/1st accused will stand exempted. However, during the course of trial, the 1 st petitioner/1st accused shall be present. On any other date, if the 1st petitioner's presence is found necessary, the learned Magistrate will notify the same, on which date the 1st petitioner/1st accused shall be present. With the above directions, the Crl. M. C. will stand disposed of. Sd/- C. JAYACHANDRAN JUDGE SKP/24-02 Crl. M. C. No. 925 of 2024 2025: KER: 15509 -9- APPENDIX OF CRL. MC 925/2024 PETITIONERS' ANNEXURES: ANNEXURE 1 CERTIFIED COPY OF THE FIRST INFORMATION REPORT DATED 07. 11. 2021 IN CRIME NO. 811/2021 OF BINANI PURAM POLICE STATION ALONG WITH THE FIRST INFORMATION STATEMENT OF THE DEFACTO COMPLAINANT ANNEXURE-II CERTIFIED COPY OF THE FINAL REPORT IN CRIME NO. 811/2021 OF BINANI PURAM POLICE STATION DATED 29. 11. 2021 ANNEXURE-III CERTIFIED COPY OF THE ACCIDENT REGISTER-CUM-WOUND CERTIFICATE OF CW1/DEFACTO COMPLAINANT DATED 06. 11. 2021 ANNEXURE-IV CERTIFIED COPY OF THE ACCIDENT REGISTER-CUM-WOUND CERTIFICATE OF CW2 DATED 06. 11. 2021 ANNEXURE-V TRUE PHOTOCOPY OF THE COMPLAINT SUBMITTED BY THE 1ST PETITIONER DATED 06. 11. 2021 ANNEXURE-VI TRUE PHOTOCOPY OF A RECEIPT DATED 06. 11. 2021 ISSUED FROM THE BNANI PURAM POLICE STATION ACKNOWLEDGING THE RECEIPT OF ANNEXURE-V COMPLAINT ANNEXURE-VII TRUE PHOTOCOPY OF THE FIRST INFORMATION REPORT DATED 07. 11. 2021 IN CRIME NO. 810/2021 OF BINANI PURAM POLICE STATION ALONG WITH THE FIRST INFORMATION STATEMENT OF THE DEFACTO COMPLAINANT ANNEXURE-VIII TRUE PHOTOCOPY OF THE ORDER DATED 18. 03. 2022 PASSED BY THIS HON'BLE COURT IN CRL. M. C NO. 1111/2022 ANNEXURE-IX CERTIFIED COPY OF THE FINAL REPORT IN CRIME NO. 554/2015 OF BINANI PURAM POLICE STATION DATED 04. 09. 2015 TRUE COPY P. A. TO JUDGE

[case 21]
This application under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. / 528 of BNSS has been filed seeking quashment of FIR in Crime No. 273/2019 registered at Police Station Mahila Thana, Gwalior for offence under Sections 498-A, 506 and 34 of IPC and under Section 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act. It is submitted by counsel for the applicants that charge-sheet has been filed and on one occasion although the complainant was present but her evidence could not be recorded at the request of counsel for the applicants. According to prosecution case the respondent No. 2 lodged an FIR on 15/11/2019 alleging inter alia that she got married to the applicant No. 1 on 7/5/2014 in accordance with Hindu rites and rituals. At the time of her marriage, her father had given sufficient dowry including household articles and gold ornaments as per the demand raised by the applicants. In all approximately an amount of Rs. 22 lacs was spent. A car was also given which is still in possession of the applicants. Applicants were not happy with the articles which were given in dowry and therefore they started harassing her physically and mentally by alleging that less dowry and less cash amount has been given. Applicant No. 2 was posted as a Deputy Ranger in Forest Department, whereas, applicant No. 3 is a housewife. They used to pass taunts frequently on the ground that she has come from the house of a beggar and sufficient dowry has not been given. They were demanding Rs. 5 lacs and a gold chain of 3 Tolas. However, she continued to live in her matrimonial house in spite of mental harassment and cruelty and she gave birth to a girl child on 5/9/2015. All the delivery expenses were borne by her father and now the applicants have kept the daughter with them against the wishes of respondent No. 2 and they are not permitting her to meet with her. A lot of efforts were made for compromise and accordingly out of love and affection towards her daughter, she went to her matrimonial house on 29/9/2019; where, the applicants did not allow her to meet with her daughter and insisted that unless and until she brings an amount of Rs. 5 lacs and a gold chain of 3 Tolas, she should not come back otherwise, she should stay back in her parental home. The applicant No. 1 also assaulted her on that issue. A threat was also extended that in case if any effort is made in future to meet her daughter then she would be killed. Accordingly, an application was given to the Police Station and case was fixed for reconciliation on 4/9/2019 but the reconciliation failed. Challenging the FIR, it is submitted by counsel for the applicants that the applicants had issued a notice on 10/8/2017 and immediately thereafter she made a complaint on 13/8/2017 and reconciliation proceedings were undertaken. Copy of the reconciliation proceedings have been placed on record. It is submitted that in the reconciliation proceedings, it was alleged by respondent No. 2 that she is being harassed by the applicants but the applicant No. 1 refuted the same and also expressed that he can reside separately from applicants No. 2 and 3. On 27/8/2017, applicant No. 1 informed that they had resided for some time but now the respondent No. 2 has gone back to her parental home and on 10/9/2017, both the parties expressed that they are residing amicably and peacefully. It is submitted that the applicant No. 1 had taken a house on rent and had started residing separately with respondent No. 2, therefore, from year 2017, applicants No. 2 and 3 have separated themselves from applicant No. 1, therefore, there is no question of demand of dowry or committing cruelty. Per contra, the application is vehemently opposed by counsel for the State. It is submitted that where the allegations make out a cognizable offence, then the FIR can be lodged. In the present case there is a specific allegation that the applicants had treated the respondent No. 2 with cruelty. The extent of cruelty has gone to the extent of separating her daughter from respondent No. 2 and they had not allowed her to even meet her. In absence of any order from the Court with regard to custody of daughter, the conduct of the applicants in forcibly separating a minor daughter aged about 2-3 years from her mother, who is the natural guardian itself would amount to cruelty. Respondent No. 2 is being compelled to reside in her parental home, therefore, it is clear that all the applicants are guilty of committing cruelty and thus, no case is made out for quashment of FIR. Heard learned counsel for the parties. So far as the submission that the applicant No. 1 had taken a house on rent and had started residing separately after the reconciliation proceedings which took place in year 2017 is concerned, the applicants have not filed any document to show that any separate house on rent was taken. Thus, the verbal submissions made by counsel for the applicants that the applications No. 2 and 3 have started residing separately from the year 2017 is misconceived and cannot be accepted at this stage. Furthermore, in the FIR, it is specifically mentioned that on 29/9/2019 when she went to her matrimonial house in order to meet her daughter then not only she was abused in filthy language but she was beaten by applicant No. 1. Separating a mother from her 2-3 years old minor daughter without any order from the Court by itself would be a cruelty because mother being the natural guardian is entitled for the custody of her minor daughter. Be that whatever it may be. Compelling a married woman to live in her parental home on account of non-fulfillment of demand of dowry by itself is a cruelty. The Supreme Court in the case of Rupali Devi v. State of U. P. , reported in (2019) 5 SCC 384 has held as under: "Cruelty which is the crux of the offence under Section 498-A IPC is defined in Black's Law Dictionary to mean the intentional and malicious infliction of mental or physical suffering on a living creature, esp. a human; abusive treatment; outrage (abuse, inhuman treatment, indignity)". Cruelty can be both physical or mental cruelty. The impact on the mental health of the wife by overt acts on the part of the husband or his relatives; the mental stress and trauma of being driven away from the matrimonial home and her helplessness to go back to the same home for fear of being ill-treated are aspects that cannot be ignored while understanding the meaning of the expression "cruelty" appearing in Section 498-A of the Penal Code. The emotional distress or psychological effect on the wife, if not the physical injury, is bound to continue to traumatise the wife even after she leaves the matrimonial home and takes shelter at the parental home. Even if the acts of physical cruelty committed in the matrimonial house may have ceased and such acts do not occur at the parental home, there can be no doubt that the mental trauma and the psychological distress caused by the acts of the husband including verbal exchanges, if any, that had compelled the wife to leave the matrimonial home and take shelter with her parents would continue to persist at the parental home. Mental cruelty borne out of physical cruelty or abusive and humiliating verbal exchanges would continue in the parental home even though there may not be any overt act of physical cruelty at such place. This Court in the case of Amar Singh vs. Smt. Vimla decided on 22. 06. 2021 in Criminal Revision No. 2376/2020 (Gwalior Bench) has held that compelling a married woman to live in her parental home amounts to cruelty. The Supreme Court in the case of Taramani Parakh Vs. State of M. P. and Ors. has held as under: "The law relating to quashing is well settled. If the allegations are absurd or do not make out any case or if it can be held that there is abuse of process of law, the proceedings can be quashed but if there is a triable case the court does not go into reliability or otherwise of the version or the counter-version. In matrimonial cases, the courts have to be cautious when omnibus allegations are made particularly against relatives who are not generally concerned with the affairs of the couple. We may refer to the decisions of this Court dealing with the issue. " Furthermore, it is well established principle of law that at the stage of quashment of FIR or the proceedings under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. , this Court has to consider uncontroverted allegations and only if the uncontroverted allegations do not make out an offence then the proceedings can be quashed. This Court has already considered the allegations made in the FIR. Trial is pending and whenever the complainant appeared before the trial Court, applicants ensured that her evidence is not recorded. Under these circumstances, where the FIR makes out a cognizable offence, this Court is of considered opinion that no case is made out warranting interference. Application fails and is hereby dismissed.

[case 22]
By this common order, both the aforesaid criminal revisions are being decided. Both the criminal revisions arise out of order dated 23. 07. 2019 passed by the Principal Judge, Family Court, Bhind (M. P. ) in Case No. 138/2017 MJCR by which application for grant of maintenance under Section 125 of Cr. P. C. filed by Smt. Priyanka Rajawat has been rejected on the ground that she is residing separately without any reasonable reason whereas Virat Rajawat has been granted maintenance at the rate of 4, 000/- per month. Criminal Revision No. 5206 of 2019 has been filed by Rahul Singh @ Vijay Singh Rajawat who is husband of respondent No. 1-Smt. Priyanka Rajawat and father of respondent No. 2-Virat Rajawat against maintenance amount awarded to his son respondent No. 2-Virat Rajawat whereas Criminal Revision No. 4107 of 2019 has been filed by Smt. Priyanka Rajawat and Virat Rajawat against the rejection of claim of applicant No. 1-Smt. Priyanka Rajawat for maintenance under Section 125 of Cr. P. C. The facts of Criminal Revision No. 5206 of 2019 shall be referred to. The undisputed facts are that applicant- Rahul Singh @ Vijay Singh Rajawat and respondent No. 1-Smt. Priyanka Rajawat are the legally wedded husband and wife whereas respondent No. 2-Virat is the child born out of their wedlock. Respondents No. 1 and 2 filed an application under Section 125 of Cr. P. C. alleging that respondent No. 1 and applicant got married on 30. 04. 2015 in accordance with Hindu rites and rituals. It is the case of respondent No. 1 that applicant as well as his family members were not satisfied with the dowry brought by her. They were alleging that a four wheeler vehicle was decided to be given in dowry which was not done. Accordingly, it was alleged that applicant and his family members were harassing her physically and mentally. Even after respondent No. 1 got pregnant, still the cruelty did not come to an end. The entire expenses of delivery were borne by respondent No. 1 and her family members. Panchayats were convened and accordingly for sometime respondent no. 1 was kept properly but thereafter she was continuously harassed physically and mentally. On 23. 05. 2017 at about 06: 00 pm when respondent No. 1 was in her matrimonial house then her mother-in-law and father-in-law abused her filthily and after assaulting her by fists and blows turned her out of her matrimonial house along with her small child. It was alleged that respondent No. 1 does not have any independent source of livelihood whereas applicant is working as Panchayat Secretary earning a monthly salary of Rs. 15, 000/-. Apart from that he is having land and house and accordingly, it was alleged that applicant is having monthly income of Rs. 30, 000-35, 000/-. Applicant- Rahul filed his reply and denied the allegations. It was alleged that in fact it was respondent No. 1 who was creating all sorts of nuisance in the house. It was also stated that the delivery expenses were borne by applicant. It was further alleged that respondent No. 1 had voluntarily left the house. On 14. 01. 2017 and on 04. 06. 2017, he also went to the house of parents of respondent No. 1 to bring her back but she did not come back. Accordingly, it was alleged that he has filed an application under Section 9 of the Hindu Marriage Act for restitution of conjugal rights. The Trial Court, after recording the statements of witnesses, rejected the application filed by respondent No. 1 whereas allowed the application filed respondent No. 2 and awarded Rs. 4, 000/- per month as maintenance. The reason for rejecting the claim of respondent No. 1 was that she was residing separately without any reasonable reason. Challenging the order passed by the Trial Court in granting monthly maintenance of Rs. 4, 000 to respondent No. 2, it was submitted by counsel for applicant that since respondent No. 1 is residing separately without any reasonable reason, therefore, respondent No. 2 is also not entitled for maintenance, whereas in Criminal Revision No. 4107 of 2019 it was contended by counsel for Smt. Priyanka Rajawat that Trial Court has committed material illegality by holding that she was residing separately without any reasonable reason. In reply, it was submitted by counsel for applicant-Rahul Singh Rajawat (respondent in Criminal Revision No. 4107 of 2019) that finding with regard to non-entitlement of Smt. Priyanka Rajawat to get the maintenance is based on sound principles of law and reasoning and therefore does not require any interference. Undisputedly, Virat Rajawat is minor boy born out of wedlock of Smt. Priyanka Rajawat and Rahul Singh Rajawat. He cannot be held responsible for any dispute which is going on between husband and wife. The father is under an obligation to maintain his child. Furthermore, it is the case of respondent No. 1- Smt. Priyanka Rajawat that monthly income of Rahul Singh Rajawat is 30, 000-35000/-. Accordingly, this Court is of the considered opinion that looking to the age of Virat Rajawat, the maintenance amount of Rs. 4, 000/- per month awarded by the Trial Court cannot be said to be either on lower side or on higher side. Accordingly, the maintenance amount of Rs. 4, 000/- per month awarded to Virat Rajawat is hereby affirmed. It is the case of applicant Rahul Singh Rajawat that it was respondent No. 1 Smt. Priyanka Rajawat who voluntarily left her matrimonial house and her behaviour towards her in-laws was also not proper. It was further submitted that an FIR was also lodged under Section 498A of IPC because father of respondent No. 1 Smt. Priyanka Rajawat is working as a Head Constable. Per contra, it is submitted by counsel for respondent No. 1- Smt. Priyanka Rajawat that merely because of an application under Section 9 of Hindu Marriage Act was filed would not mean that respondent No. 1 Smt. Priyanka Rajawat left her matrimonial house on her own volition. However, it is further submitted that even the application under Section 9 of Hindu Marriage Act was withdrawn by her husband Rahul Singh Rajawat. Considered the submissions made by counsel for the parties. The moot question for consideration is as to whether merely filing an application under Section 9 of Hindu Marriage Act would make the wife ineligible for grant of maintenance or not? If wife is being treated with cruelty then she cannot be compelled to live in her matrimonial house. Under these circumstances, mere filing of an application under Section 9 of Hindu Marriage Act ipso facto would not make the wife disentitled for grant of maintenance. Supreme Court in the case of Rina Kumari @ Rina Devi @ Reena Vs Dinesh Kumar Mahto @ Dinesh Kumar Mahato and another, Special Leave Petition (Crl. ) No. 5896 of 2024 decided on 10. 01. 2025, has held that even if decree under Section 9 of Hindu Marriage has been passed, still the wife can claim maintenance amount. Where the parties are at loggerheads and an FIR under Section 498A of IPC has also been lodged, under these circumstances, this Court is of the considered opinion that rejection of claim of respondent No. 1 (Smt. Priyanka Rajawat) for grant of maintenance appears to be contrary to law. The reasoning assigned by the Trial Court for holding that respondent No. 1-Smt. Priyanka Rajawat was living separately without any reasonable reason cannot be affirmed. Under these circumstances, order dated 23. 07. 2019 with regard to rejection of claim of respondent No. 1- Smt. Priyanka Rajawat for grant of maintenance cannot be upheld and it is accordingly set aside. Now, the next question for consideration is that what should be the maintenance amount for respondent No. 1- Smt. Priyanka Rajawat? According to respondent No. 1-Smt. Priyanka Rajawat, monthly income of applicant- Rahul Singh Rajawat is Rs. 30, 000-35000/-. Although it is the contention of applicant-Rahul Singh Rajawat that father of respondent No. 1 is working as Head Constable in police department and therefore, she is not ready to adjust in the family of applicant but during the course of arguments it was also admitted by applicant that his father is also working in the police department. Under these circumstances, this Court is of considered opinion that monthly maintenance amount of Rs. 6, 000/- to respondent No. 1- Smt. Priyanka Rajawat would be sufficient. Accordingly, it is held that respondent No. 1-Priyanka Rajawat is entitled for monthly maintenance at the rate of Rs. 6, 000/-. In the light of judgment passed by the Supreme Court in the case of Rajnesh Vs. Neha reported in (2021) 2 SCC 324, the aforesaid amount shall be payable from the date of application. With aforesaid observations, Criminal Revision No. 5206 of 2019 is hereby dismissed whereas Criminal Revision No. 4107 of 2019 is allowed to the extent of applicant No. 1- Smt. Priyanka Rajawat. No order as to costs.

[case 23]
Case: - CRIMINAL MISC ANTICIPATORY BAIL APPLICATION U/S 438 CR. P. C. No. - 5511 of 2021
Applicant: - Chokhelal
Opposite Party: - State of U. P.
Counsel for Applicant: - Pushpendra Singh
Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A.
Hon'ble Siddharth, J.
As per Resolution dated 07. 04. 2021 of the Committee of this Court for the purpose of taking preventive and remedial measures and for combating the impending threat of Covid-19, this case is being heard by way of virtual mode.
Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned A. G. A for the State through video conferencing.
The instant anticipatory bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant, Chokhelal, with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 338 of 2018, under Section-363, 366, 376 I. P. C. , and section 4 of POCSO Act and 3(2) (V) of SC/ST Act Police Station- Dewarnia, District-Bareilly, during pendency of trial.
Prior notice of this bail application was served in the office of Government Advocate and as per Chapter XVIII, Rule 18 of the Allahabad High Court Rules and as per direction dated 20. 11. 2020 of this Court in Criminal Misc. Anticipatory Bail Application U/S 438 Cr. P. C. No. 8072 of 2020, Govind Mishra @ Chhotu Versus State of U. P. , hence, this anticipatory bail application is being heard. Grant of further time to the learned A. G. A as per Section 438 (3) Cr. P. C. (U. P. Amendment) is not required.
There is allegation of enticement of minor girl against the applicant. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that at the relevant time the girl was not minor. She has married with the applicant. The applicant has been falsely implicated in this case. The victim has not supported the prosecution case in her statement under section 164 Cr. P. C. . The present application is supported by the affidavit of the girl herself. A child has been born out of their wedlock. Therefore, it would not be in the interest of justice not to grant protection to the applicant since there is no one to look after his family. She is living with the applicant. The charge sheet has already been submitted against the applicant. The applicant will cooperate with the trial. He has no criminal history to his credit. The applicant has a definite apprehension that he may be arrested by the police any time.
Learned A. G. A. has opposed the prayer for anticipatory bail of the applicant. He has submitted that in view of the seriousness of the allegations made against the applicant, he is not entitled to grant of anticipatory bail. The apprehension of the applicant is not founded on any material on record. Only on the basis of imaginary fear, anticipatory bail cannot be granted.
After considering the rival submissions, this Court finds that there is a case registered against the applicant. It cannot be definitely said when the police may apprehend him. After the lodging of F. I. R, the arrest can be made by the police at will. There is no definite period fixed for the police to arrest an accused against whom an F. I. R has been lodged. The courts have repeatedly held that arrest should be the last option for the police and it should be restricted to those exceptional cases where arresting the accused is imperative or his custodial interrogation is required. Irrational and indiscriminate arrests are gross violation of human rights. In the case of Joginder Kumar v. State of Uttar Pradesh AIR 1994 SC 1349, the Apex Court has referred to the third report of National Police Commission wherein it is mentioned that arrests by the police in India is one of the chief sources of corruption in the police. The report suggested that, by and large, nearly 60 percent of the arrests were either unnecessary or unjustified and that such unjustified police action accounted for 43. 2 percent of expenditure of the jails. Personal liberty is a very precious fundamental right and it should be curtailed only when it becomes imperative. According to the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, the arrest of an accused should be made.
Hence without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case and considering the nature of accusations and antecedents of applicant and also the second surge in the cases of novel coronavirus and possibility of further surge of the pandemic, he is directed to be enlarged on anticipatory bail as per the Constitution Bench judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Sushila Aggarwal vs. State (NCT of Delhi)- 2020 SCC Online SC 98. The future contingencies regarding anticipatory bail being granted to applicant shall also be taken care of as per the aforesaid judgment of the Apex Court.
In the event of arrest, the applicant shall be released on anticipatory bail. Let the applicant involved in the aforesaid crime be released on anticipatory bail on furnishing a personal bond with two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial court concerned with the following conditions: -
1. The applicant shall, at the time of execution of the bond, furnish his address and mobile number and shall not change the residence till the conclusion of investigation/ trial without informing the Investigating Officer of the police/ the Court concerned of change of address and the reasons for the same before changing the same.
2. The applicant shall not leave the country during the pendency of trial/investigation by police without prior permission from the concerned trial Court.
3. The applicant shall not obstruct or hamper the police investigation and not play mischief with the evidence collected or yet to be collected by the Investigating Officer of the police;
4. The applicant shall surrender his passport, if any, to the concerned Court/Investigating Officer forthwith. His passport will remain in custody of the concerned Court/ Investigating Officer till the investigation is completed. In case he has no passport, he will file his affidavit before the Court/ Investigating Officer concerned in this regard.
5. That the applicant shall not, directly or indirectly, make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or to any police officer;

[case 24]
Case: - CRIMINAL MISC ANTICIPATORY BAIL APPLICATION U/S 438 CR. P. C. No. - 5511 of 2021
Applicant: - Chokhelal
Opposite Party: - State of U. P.
Counsel for Applicant: - Pushpendra Singh
Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A.
Hon'ble Siddharth, J.
As per Resolution dated 07. 04. 2021 of the Committee of this Court for the purpose of taking preventive and remedial measures and for combating the impending threat of Covid-19, this case is being heard by way of virtual mode.
Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned A. G. A for the State through video conferencing.
The instant anticipatory bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant, Chokhelal, with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 338 of 2018, under Section-363, 366, 376 I. P. C. , and section 4 of POCSO Act and 3(2) (V) of SC/ST Act Police Station- Dewarnia, District-Bareilly, during pendency of trial.
Prior notice of this bail application was served in the office of Government Advocate and as per Chapter XVIII, Rule 18 of the Allahabad High Court Rules and as per direction dated 20. 11. 2020 of this Court in Criminal Misc. Anticipatory Bail Application U/S 438 Cr. P. C. No. 8072 of 2020, Govind Mishra @ Chhotu Versus State of U. P. , hence, this anticipatory bail application is being heard. Grant of further time to the learned A. G. A as per Section 438 (3) Cr. P. C. (U. P. Amendment) is not required.
There is allegation of enticement of minor girl against the applicant. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that at the relevant time the girl was not minor. She has married with the applicant. The applicant has been falsely implicated in this case. The victim has not supported the prosecution case in her statement under section 164 Cr. P. C. . The present application is supported by the affidavit of the girl herself. A child has been born out of their wedlock. Therefore, it would not be in the interest of justice not to grant protection to the applicant since there is no one to look after his family. She is living with the applicant. The charge sheet has already been submitted against the applicant. The applicant will cooperate with the trial. He has no criminal history to his credit. The applicant has a definite apprehension that he may be arrested by the police any time.
Learned A. G. A. has opposed the prayer for anticipatory bail of the applicant. He has submitted that in view of the seriousness of the allegations made against the applicant, he is not entitled to grant of anticipatory bail. The apprehension of the applicant is not founded on any material on record. Only on the basis of imaginary fear, anticipatory bail cannot be granted.
After considering the rival submissions, this Court finds that there is a case registered against the applicant. It cannot be definitely said when the police may apprehend him. After the lodging of F. I. R, the arrest can be made by the police at will. There is no definite period fixed for the police to arrest an accused against whom an F. I. R has been lodged. The courts have repeatedly held that arrest should be the last option for the police and it should be restricted to those exceptional cases where arresting the accused is imperative or his custodial interrogation is required. Irrational and indiscriminate arrests are gross violation of human rights. In the case of Joginder Kumar v. State of Uttar Pradesh AIR 1994 SC 1349, the Apex Court has referred to the third report of National Police Commission wherein it is mentioned that arrests by the police in India is one of the chief sources of corruption in the police. The report suggested that, by and large, nearly 60 percent of the arrests were either unnecessary or unjustified and that such unjustified police action accounted for 43. 2 percent of expenditure of the jails. Personal liberty is a very precious fundamental right and it should be curtailed only when it becomes imperative. According to the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, the arrest of an accused should be made.
Hence without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case and considering the nature of accusations and antecedents of applicant and also the second surge in the cases of novel coronavirus and possibility of further surge of the pandemic, he is directed to be enlarged on anticipatory bail as per the Constitution Bench judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Sushila Aggarwal vs. State (NCT of Delhi)- 2020 SCC Online SC 98. The future contingencies regarding anticipatory bail being granted to applicant shall also be taken care of as per the aforesaid judgment of the Apex Court.
In the event of arrest, the applicant shall be released on anticipatory bail. Let the applicant involved in the aforesaid crime be released on anticipatory bail on furnishing a personal bond with two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial court concerned with the following conditions: -
1. The applicant shall, at the time of execution of the bond, furnish his address and mobile number and shall not change the residence till the conclusion of investigation/ trial without informing the Investigating Officer of the police/ the Court concerned of change of address and the reasons for the same before changing the same.
2. The applicant shall not leave the country during the pendency of trial/investigation by police without prior permission from the concerned trial Court.
3. The applicant shall not obstruct or hamper the police investigation and not play mischief with the evidence collected or yet to be collected by the Investigating Officer of the police;
4. The applicant shall surrender his passport, if any, to the concerned Court/Investigating Officer forthwith. His passport will remain in custody of the concerned Court/ Investigating Officer till the investigation is completed. In case he has no passport, he will file his affidavit before the Court/ Investigating Officer concerned in this regard.
5. That the applicant shall not, directly or indirectly, make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or to any police officer;

[case 25]
Case: - CRIMINAL MISC ANTICIPATORY BAIL APPLICATION U/S 438 CR. P. C. No. - 5511 of 2021
Applicant: - Chokhelal
Opposite Party: - State of U. P.
Counsel for Applicant: - Pushpendra Singh
Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A.
Hon'ble Siddharth, J.
As per Resolution dated 07. 04. 2021 of the Committee of this Court for the purpose of taking preventive and remedial measures and for combating the impending threat of Covid-19, this case is being heard by way of virtual mode.
Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned A. G. A for the State through video conferencing.
The instant anticipatory bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant, Chokhelal, with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 338 of 2018, under Section-363, 366, 376 I. P. C. , and section 4 of POCSO Act and 3(2) (V) of SC/ST Act Police Station- Dewarnia, District-Bareilly, during pendency of trial.
Prior notice of this bail application was served in the office of Government Advocate and as per Chapter XVIII, Rule 18 of the Allahabad High Court Rules and as per direction dated 20. 11. 2020 of this Court in Criminal Misc. Anticipatory Bail Application U/S 438 Cr. P. C. No. 8072 of 2020, Govind Mishra @ Chhotu Versus State of U. P. , hence, this anticipatory bail application is being heard. Grant of further time to the learned A. G. A as per Section 438 (3) Cr. P. C. (U. P. Amendment) is not required.
There is allegation of enticement of minor girl against the applicant. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that at the relevant time the girl was not minor. She has married with the applicant. The applicant has been falsely implicated in this case. The victim has not supported the prosecution case in her statement under section 164 Cr. P. C. . The present application is supported by the affidavit of the girl herself. A child has been born out of their wedlock. Therefore, it would not be in the interest of justice not to grant protection to the applicant since there is no one to look after his family. She is living with the applicant. The charge sheet has already been submitted against the applicant. The applicant will cooperate with the trial. He has no criminal history to his credit. The applicant has a definite apprehension that he may be arrested by the police any time.
Learned A. G. A. has opposed the prayer for anticipatory bail of the applicant. He has submitted that in view of the seriousness of the allegations made against the applicant, he is not entitled to grant of anticipatory bail. The apprehension of the applicant is not founded on any material on record. Only on the basis of imaginary fear, anticipatory bail cannot be granted.
After considering the rival submissions, this Court finds that there is a case registered against the applicant. It cannot be definitely said when the police may apprehend him. After the lodging of F. I. R, the arrest can be made by the police at will. There is no definite period fixed for the police to arrest an accused against whom an F. I. R has been lodged. The courts have repeatedly held that arrest should be the last option for the police and it should be restricted to those exceptional cases where arresting the accused is imperative or his custodial interrogation is required. Irrational and indiscriminate arrests are gross violation of human rights. In the case of Joginder Kumar v. State of Uttar Pradesh AIR 1994 SC 1349, the Apex Court has referred to the third report of National Police Commission wherein it is mentioned that arrests by the police in India is one of the chief sources of corruption in the police. The report suggested that, by and large, nearly 60 percent of the arrests were either unnecessary or unjustified and that such unjustified police action accounted for 43. 2 percent of expenditure of the jails. Personal liberty is a very precious fundamental right and it should be curtailed only when it becomes imperative. According to the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, the arrest of an accused should be made.
Hence without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case and considering the nature of accusations and antecedents of applicant and also the second surge in the cases of novel coronavirus and possibility of further surge of the pandemic, he is directed to be enlarged on anticipatory bail as per the Constitution Bench judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Sushila Aggarwal vs. State (NCT of Delhi)- 2020 SCC Online SC 98. The future contingencies regarding anticipatory bail being granted to applicant shall also be taken care of as per the aforesaid judgment of the Apex Court.
In the event of arrest, the applicant shall be released on anticipatory bail. Let the applicant involved in the aforesaid crime be released on anticipatory bail on furnishing a personal bond with two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial court concerned with the following conditions: -
1. The applicant shall, at the time of execution of the bond, furnish his address and mobile number and shall not change the residence till the conclusion of investigation/ trial without informing the Investigating Officer of the police/ the Court concerned of change of address and the reasons for the same before changing the same.
2. The applicant shall not leave the country during the pendency of trial/investigation by police without prior permission from the concerned trial Court.
3. The applicant shall not obstruct or hamper the police investigation and not play mischief with the evidence collected or yet to be collected by the Investigating Officer of the police;
4. The applicant shall surrender his passport, if any, to the concerned Court/Investigating Officer forthwith. His passport will remain in custody of the concerned Court/ Investigating Officer till the investigation is completed. In case he has no passport, he will file his affidavit before the Court/ Investigating Officer concerned in this regard.
5. That the applicant shall not, directly or indirectly, make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or to any police officer;

[case 26]
Shri. Kamlesh Prabhakar Paradkar vs Smt. Sapana Dayanand Sawant Alias on 20 November, 2024
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA, DHARWAD BENCH DATED THIS THE 20TH DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2024 PRESENT THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE H. T. NARENDRA PRASAD AND THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE VENKATESH NAIK T MISCELLANEOUS FIRST APPEAL NO. 100826 OF 2021 (MC)
BETWEEN: SHRI. KAMLESH PRABHAKAR PARADKAR AGE: 46 YEARS, OCC: SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH ASSISTANT, C/O. PRABHAKAR NANA PARADKAR, A-22, SARVAMANGAL C. H. S. , 6TH FLOOR, LOK PRIYA PARK, BHANDUP VILLAGE, BHANDUP EAST, MUMBAI-400042, MAHARASHTRA. .. .APPELLANT (BY SRI. A. A. KALEBUDDE, ADVOCATE)
AND: SMT. SAPANA DAYANAND SAWANT @ PREETI W/O. KAMLESH PARADKAR, AGED 39 YEARS, OCC: SERVICE, R/O. JOSHIWADA, NANDANGADDA, KARWAR-581301, DIST: UTTARA KANNADA, KARNATAKA. .. .RESPONDENT (NOTICE TO RESPONDENT HELD SUFFICIENT) THIS MFA IS FILED U/S. 28 OF THE HINDU MARRIAGE ACT, 1955, AGAINST THE JUDGEMENT AND DECREE DATED 23. 03. 2020 PASSED IN MATRIMONIAL CASE NO. 44/2015 ON THE FILE OF THE PRINCIPAL SENIOR CIVIL JUDGE, KARWAR, PARTLY ALLOWING THE PETITION FILED U/SEC. 13(1)(ia)(ib) OF THE HINDU MARRIAGE ACT, 1955. THIS APPEAL, COMING ON FOR ORDERS, THIS DAY, JUDGMENT WAS DELIVERED THEREIN AS UNDER: CORAM: THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE H. T. NARENDRA PRASAD AND THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE VENKATESH NAIK T ORAL JUDGMENT (PER: THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE VENKATESH NAIK T) This appeal is filed by the husband challenging the judgment and decree dated 23. 03. 2020 passed in M. C. No. 44/2015 by the learned Principal Senior Civil Judge, Karwar, allowing the petition filed by the wife under Section 13(1)(ia) and (ib) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act', for short) dissolving the marriage solemnized between the appellant and the respondent on 23. 06. 2007. The appellant/husband was the respondent and the respondent/wife was the petitioner in M. C. No. 44/2015 before the Family Court. For the sake of convenience, the parties are referred to as per their rank before the Family Court henceforth. Brief facts of the case are that, the marriage of the petitioner with the respondent was solemnized on 23. 06. 2007 at Jain Mandir, LBS Road, Bhandup West Mumbai as per Hindu rites, rituals and custom prevailed in their community. The petitioner is a B. Com graduate and the respondent is a B. E. Mechanical Engineer and working as Scientific Research Assistant for Baba Atomic Research Centre at Mumbai. After marriage, the petitioner was taken to flat of the respondent at No. A/22, Sarvamangal CHS, 6th floor, Bhandu. Since the brothers and their wives of the respondent were employed, the petitioner was put under pressure to secure a job. The respondent and his mother hit the petitioner, abused and adversely compared her with the daughter-in-law who was working as steno in the Ministry. The petitioner secured job at S. K. Group company on monthly salary of Rs. 5, 000/-. After sometime she became pregnant and she had to quit the job. The respondent and his mother were against the pregnancy and pressurized the petitioner to terminate the pregnancy to which she did not agree. Therefore, the petitioner hit the petitioner with broom, due to which she started bleeding. The respondent did not take the petitioner for medical treatment and she herself got admitted to the hospital and the respondent and his family members did not assist the petitioner in any way. The mother of the petitioner requested the respondent to be kind with the petitioner, but the respondent continued to abuse and ill treat the petitioner. It is contended that the respondent is actively participating with black magic with the help of Babas and Maulvis. The respondent took the petitioner to them and also to psychiatrist and enquired the doctors about aborting the child. Therefore, the petitioner came to her parental house at Karwar at seven months of pregnancy and gave birth to a baby boy and neither the respondent nor his family members attended the cradle ceremony on 05. 06. 2008. After three months, the petitioner returned to house of the respondent. It is contended that the child was admitted to an expensive school by the respondent and he took money from the petitioner for the fees and due to the extravagant behaviour of the respondent, the petitioner had to take up employment with Manha finance and later at Forties Hospital Pvt. Ltd. On 23. 08. 2015, the respondent beat the petitioner and driven out her from the house. Police complaint was also lodged in that regard and she has taken shelter at Sri. Mukti Sangathana and after intervention of police and Sangathana, she went to live with the respondent. After a couple of days, he thrashed her again with slipper in front of the maid servant who rescued her and unable to bear the same, she returned to her parental home at Karwar. Hence, she filed a petition seeking a decree for dissolution of her marriage with the respondent. After institution of the petition before the Family Court, the respondent/husband appeared through counsel and filed a detailed objection admitting their marriage, qualification and the child born out of their wedlock but, however, denied the allegation of use of abusive words, assault and harassment both physically and mentally. The petitioner, in order to prove her case, got examined herself as PW-1 and got marked three document as Exs. P1 to P-3. On behalf of the respondent, the respondent except examining himself as RW. 1, did not produce any documents. The Family Court after considering the oral and documentary evidence on record, allowed the petition in part by awarding decree of divorce and granting permanent alimony of Rs. 10, 00, 000/- to the petitioner. Being aggrieved by the impugned order, the respondent/husband has filed this appeal. Learned counsel for appellant/husband vehemently contended that, the petitioner/wife is a B. Com graduate. The petitioner, prior to the marriage was working and earning good amount of salary and currently she is working at Forties Hospital, Goa as an accountant. The respondent/husband is a Mechanical Engineer and is working as a Scientific Research Assistant at Bhaba Atomic Research Centre at Mumbai. Learned counsel for the appellant contended that the appellant has no grievance with respect to the order of decree of divorce granted by the Family Court, but is aggrieved by the direction of the Family Court to pay permanent alimony of Rs. 10, 00, 000/- to the respondent. He contended that since the respondent is working at Forties Hospital, Goa as an accountant, grant of permanent alimony to the petitioner/wife does not arise. Hence, the learned counsel prays to reduce the grant of permanent alimony to the petitioner/wife. Heard the learned counsel for the appellant/husband. Though the respondent/wife is served, she remained absent. We have perused the entire material available on record. Since, as contended by the learned counsel for the appellant that he has no grievance with regard to the decree of divorce granted by the Family Court, we restrain ourselves from considering the said aspect. So far as the grievance of the appellant with respect to grant of permanent alimony is concerned, from the perusal of the oral evidence of PW. 1, RW. 1 and Exs. P-1 to 3, it clearly establish that the respondent is working and from the evidence it reveals that the petitioner/wife is working at Forties Hospital, Goa, as an accountant. Further the petitioner/wife and the respondent/husband have a son who is studying in PUC. Therefore, it is the duty of the respondent, who being the father and husband, has to look after his son as well as his wife/petitioner. Considering the status of the parties, including the education of their son, their avocation, cost of living in the present society and with regard to the facts and circumstances of the present case, it is just and necessary to reduce the permanent alimony of Rs. 10, 00, 000/- awarded by the Family Court to Rs. 5, 00, 000/- which would meet the ends of justice. Hence, we proceed to pass the following: ORDER i) The appeal is allowed in part. The judgment and decree dated 23. 03. 2020 passed in M. C. No. 44/2015 by the learned Principal Senior Civil Judge, Karwar, is hereby confirmed. However, the permanent alimony granted by the family Court is reduced to Rs. 5, 00, 000/- from Rs. 10, 00, 000/-. ii) The appellant/husband is directed to pay permanent alimony of Rs. 5, 00, 000/- to the respondent within four months from today.

[case 27]
Rinku Yadav vs State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Home Lko. .. . on 30 January, 2025
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH
Neutral Citation No. - 2025: AHC-LKO: 6503
Case: - APPLICATION U/S 482 No. - 552 of 2025
Applicant: - Rinku Yadav
Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Home Lko. And 3 Others
Counsel for Applicant: - Anuj Kumar Mishra
Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. ,Ram Kalesh
Hon'ble Saurabh Lavania, J.
1. As prayed, learned counsel for the applicant is permitted to implead the victim as opposite party No. 5 in the application during the course of the day.
2. Shri Ram Kalesh, learned counsel has filed a short counter affidavit on behalf of the opposite party No. 2/ complainant and his vakalatnama on behalf of newly impleaded opposite party No. 5/ victim in the Court today, which are taken on record.
3. The applicant, opposite party No. 2/ complainant and opposite party No. 5/ victim are personally present before this Court and have been duly identified by their counsel.
4. Heard learned counsel for the applicant(s), learned AGA for the State of U. P. as well as Shri Ram Kalesh, learned counsel for the private opposite party No. 2 &opposite party No. 5/ victim and gone through the record.
5. The present application has been filed by the applicants for the following main relief(s): -(i) To quash the charge sheet dated 02. 07. 2020 filed in FIR No. 123 of 2019 lodged under section 363, 366, 376 I. P. C. , 3 (2) (v) of SC/ST Act and section 3/4 of POCSO Act, registered at Police Station Hanswar, District Ambedkar Nagar, so far as it relates to the applicant on the basis of compromise deed dated 14. 12. 2024. (ii) It is further prayed that the entire criminal proceedings of SST POCSO No. 215 of 2020 "State Vs. Rinku" in respect of the FIR No. 123 of 2019 lodged under section 363, 366, 376 I. P. C. , 3 (2) (v) of SC/ST Act and section 3/4 of POCSO Act, registered at Police Station Hanswar, District Ambedkar Nagar pending before the Court of Learned Additional Session Judge/Special Judge, POCSO Act, Ambedkar Nagar, may be quashed on the basis of compromise deed dated 14. 12. 2024.
(iii) Further, it is also prayed that during the pendency of the present petition, further proceedings of the SST POCSO No. 215 of 2020 "State Vs. Rinku" in pursuant to the impugned charge sheet dated 02. 07. 2020 filed in FIR No. 123 of 2019 lodged under section 363, 366, 376 1. P. C. , 3 (2) (v) of SC/ST Act and section 3/4 of POCSO Act, registered at Police Station Hanswar, District Ambedkar Nagar pending before the Court of Learned Additional Session Judge/Special Judge, POCSO Act, Ambedkar Nagar may kindly be stayed so far as it relates to the applicant on the basis of compromise deed dated 14. 12. 2024.
(iv) It is further prayed that during the pendency of the present petition, the Learned Court below may be directed not to take any coercive measures against the applicant.
6. It is stated that the applicant and opposite party No. 5/ victim were having an affair and opposite party No. 5/ victim was inclined to marry him and both were known to each other long before from the date of lodging of FIR in issue.
7. It is further stated that as per the statement(s) of victim herself recorded during investigation in terms of Sections 161 & 164 Cr. P. C. , she on her own volition left her parental house and accompanied the applicant to Lucknow and thereafter solemnized marriage with applicant on 14. 07. 2019 at Arya Samaj Sector-H (Harsh Vihar Purania), Aliganj, Lucknow (Annexure No. 3 to this application).
8. It is further stated that the relationship of victim/ opposite party No. 5 and applicant was not acknowledged/ accepted by the family members of opposite party No. 5/ victim and therefore an FIR was lodged by the opposite party No. 2, mother of opposite party No. 5/ victim, on 14. 07. 2019 registered as FIR No. 0123/2019 making allegations therein so as to attract the offences as indicated under Sections 363, 366 IPC and Section 3(2)(v) of SC/ST Act. As per this FIR, the applicant enticed away the opposite party No. 5/ victim aged about 16 years. However, upon alleged recovery, the opposite party No. 5/ victim was medically examined and as per medical opinion, the victim at the relevant point of time was about 18-19 years old.
9. It is also stated that the date of birth of the opposite party No. 5/ victim is mentioned in the marriage certificate as 01. 01. 2001 and accordingly, it is apparent that the opposite party No. 5/ victim at the relevant point of time was major.
10. It is also stated that the date of birth of opposite party No. 5/ victim indicated in the document relied upon by the prosecution i. e. school record was not correct as the prosecution is having no evidence to establish the age of the opposite party No. 5/ victim recorded in the school record is correct and even if the same is taken on its face value then in view of the fact of the instant case, the benefit of the various pronouncements/judgments related to determination of age including the case(s) passed by the Hon'ble Apex Court Birad Mal Singhvi Vs. Anand Purohit, reported in (1988) Supp SCC 604, State of Punjab Vs. Gurmit Singh, reported in (1996) 2 SCC 384, Suhani Vs. State of U. P. delivered on 26. 04. 2018 in Civil Appeal No. 4532 of 2018 arising out of SLP(C) No. 8001 of 2018 and in the case of Manak Chand alias Mani Vs. State of Haryana reported in 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1397, shall be extended in favour of the applicant and the opposite party no. 5/ victim both.
11. It is also stated that presently the applicant and opposite party No. 5/ victim are living as husband and wife alongwith their minor child.
12. It is also stated that in the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, indulgence of this Court is required in the matter, as otherwise, entire matrimonial life of applicant and opposite party No. 5/ victim as also future of their minor child would be ruined.

[case 28]
Avinash Tripathi vs State Of U. P. & Anr. on 20 July, 2021 Share Link Mobile View Free features Premium features Case removal Warning on translation Get this document in PDF Print it on a file/printer Download Court Copy Select the following parts of the judgment Issues Petitioner's Arguments Respondent's Arguments Precedent Analysis Court's Reasoning Conclusion For entire document Mark above structure Remove all markings Learn how it works! [Cites 9, Cited by 0] Top AI Tags rape criminal-intimidation examination-of-witnesses confession-recording, recording-of-statement failure-to-appear-in-court < terms-of-bail User Queries sexual assault section 164 of code of criminal procedure section 164 crpc section 164 cr. pc section 164 cr. p. c section 161 164 CrPC Section 164 164 cr. p. c. section 164 of code of criminal procedure code bail filter: bail under section 8 of pocso act code of criminal procedure 164 Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month. Allahabad High Court Avinash Tripathi vs State Of U. P. & Anr. on 20 July, 2021 Author: Alok Mathur Bench: Alok Mathur HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH? Court No. - 15 Case: - BAIL No. - 6901 of 2020 Applicant: - Avinash Tripathi Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. & Anr. Counsel for Applicant: - Prashant Singh Gaur, Anil Kumar Dwivedi, Sudhanshu Mishra, Umesh Kumar Yadav Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Alok Mathur, J. 1. Heard Sri Umesh Kumar Yadav, learned counsel for applicant as well as learned Additional Government Advocate. 2. Office has reported by means of report dated 01. 03. 2021 that respondent No. 2 has been served but no one has put in appearance on her behalf, the Court has proceeded to hear the bail application. 2. This application has been filed by the applicant who is an accused in connection with Case Crime No. 0108/2018, under Sections 376(D), 506 I. P. C. and 3/4 POCSO Act, Police Station - Rajesultanpur, Ambedkar Nagar. 3. It has been submitted by learned counsel for applicant that the first information report was lodged by the prosecutrix herself who stated that she is 17 years of age and the occurrence relates to six months prior in time. One Prashant Mishra has been accused of dragging her into the field and sexually assaulted the prosecutrix. At the time of lodging of the first information report, it was stated that the prosecutrix was pregnant for six months and that the said accused therein, namely, Prashant Mishra has refused to marry her and consequently the first information report was lodged. The statement under Section 161 of Cr. P. C. was recorded after six months on 18. 06. 2018 where she has reiterated the contents of the first information report and named Prashant Kumar as to the person who has sexually assaulted the prosecutrix. The statement under Section 164 Cr. P. C. was recorded on 18. 07. 2018, it is stated that the applicant has been named as one of the person who has sexually assaulted the prosecutrix and consequently he was shown as an accused and chargesheet has been filed in the court of competent jurisdiction. 4. It has been submitted by learned counsel for applicant that the entire story as narrated by the prosecutrix is unbelievable and not worthy of any credence. He submits that the first information report was lodged by the prosecutrix herself and that too after six months of the incident and there is no explanation that as to why the applicant was not named as an accused or any other perosn who has sexually assaulted the prosecutrix in the F. I. R. itself. 5. It has further been submitted that the statement under Section 161 Cr. P. C. was recorded after six months where again the name of the applicant has not been shown as an accused. He submits that it is in the statement recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C. where the name of the applicant has come up and there is no reason that as to why the applicant was named in the statement recorded under Section 161 Cr. P. C. 6. It has further been submitted that D. N. A. test of the child was conducted for comparing to the same with the D. N. A. of the prosecutrix and to the said Prashant Mishra and the D. N. A. testing was confirmed that the father of the child is Prashant Mishra and not the applicant. 7. It has lastly been submitted that the applicant is in jail since 26. 06. 2020. 8. Learned A. G. A. opposed the prayer for bail and submits that the applicant has clearly named the applicant in the Statement recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C. , therefore the applicant is not entitled for bail looking into the of his complicity in the case. 9. I have heard learned counsel for parties and perused the record. It is clear that there is no reason forth coming as to why the prosecutrix has not named the applicant either in the first information report or in the statement recorded after six months under Section 164 Cr. P. C. Coupled with the fact that the D. N. A. report has not confirmed the parentage of the child to that of the applicant herein and also considering the nature of allegations, arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties as well as the fact that applicant has in jail since 26. 06. 2020 where he has spent nearly one year in judicial custory, without expressing any opinion on the merit of the case, I find it to be a fit case for granting bail. 10. Let the applicant/Avinash Tripathi involved in Case Crime No. 0108/2018, under Sections 376(D), 506 I. P. C. and 3/4 POCSO Act, Police Station - Rajesultanpur, Ambedkar Nagar be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions which are being imposed in the interest of justice: - (i) The applicant shall file an undertaking to the effect that he shall not seek any adjournment on the dates fixed for evidence when the witnesses are present in court. In case of default of this condition, it shall be open for the trial court to treat it as abuse of liberty of bail and pass orders in accordance with law. (ii) The applicant shall remain present before the trial court on each date fixed, either personally or through his counsel. In case of his absence, without sufficient cause, the trial court may proceed against him under Section 229-A of the Indian Penal Code. (iii) In case, the applicant misuses the liberty of bail during trial and in order to secure his presence, proclamation under Section 82 Cr. P. C. is issued and the applicant fails to appear before the court on the date fixed in such proclamation, then, the trial court shall initiate proceedings against him, in accordance with law, under Section 174-A of the Indian Penal Code. (iv) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the trial court on the dates fixed for (i) opening of the case, (ii) framing of charge and (iii) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. If in the opinion of the trial court absence of the applicant is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the trial court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against him in accordance with law. 11. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, the Court below shall be at liberty to cancel the bail and proceed against the applicant in accordance with law. 12. The application stands disposed of. 13. The party shall file computer generated copy of order downloaded from the official website of High Court Allahabad, self attested by him alongwith a self attested identity proof of the said person(s) (preferably Aadhar Card) mentioning the mobile number(s) to which the said Aadhar Card is linked before the concerned Court/Authority/Official. 14. The concerned Court/Authority/Official shall verify the authenticity of the computerized copy of the order from the official website of High Court Allahabad and shall make a declaration of such verification in writing. (Alok Mathur, J. ) Order Date: - 20. 7. 2021/Ravi/

[case 29]
This revision under Section 102 of the Juvenile Justice ( Care and Protection of Children), Act, 2015 has been preferred by the revisionist Satyam Yadav, (Minor) through his father Jai Prakash Yadav against the judgment and order dated 21. 10. 2021 passed by learned Special Judge (POCSO) Act, Pratapgarh in criminal appeal no. 40 of 2021 and impugned order dated 22. 6. 2021 passed by the learned Juvenile Justice Board, Pratapgarh in case crime no. 247 of 2021 under Sections 302, 307, 34 I. P. C. and under Section 3 (2) (v), 3 (2) (Va) of the Scheduled Castes And the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, Police Station- Kotwali City, district- Pratapgarh. He heard learned counsel for the revisionist and learned A. G. A for State of U. P. Learned counsel for the revisionist has submitted that the revisionist is juvenile and has falsely been implicated in the present case. The revisionist is not named in the F. I. R. The name of the revisionist has been disclosed after 62 days of the alleged incident only on the basis of the statement of the injured- Jangbahadur. He further submitted that no body has seen the occurrence. The main role has been assigned to Luvkush. Thus, applicant has been named in the present case only on the basis of the suspicion but there is no cogent and credible evidence against him. The false recovery of danda has also been shown from the possession of the revisionist. Similarly co-accused- Jai Prakash Yadav has been granted bail by this Court in Criminal Appeal no. 1004 of 2021 on 19. 8. 2021. No specific role has been assigned against him. No incriminating fact has been mentioned in the report submitted by the District Probation Officer. If he is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail. He is languishing in remand home since 19. 3. 2021. The impugned orders are against the provision of law which are liable to be set aside. Learned A. G. A has vehemently opposed the prayer made by the learned counsel for the revisionist and submitted that if the revisionist is released on bail, he will join in the company of habitual criminal, hence he is not entitled for bail. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015 (Act) has been enacted with object to reform and protect the future career of children below the age of 18 years. The main purpose of this Act is to keep the juvenile out of company and society of habitual criminals and to keep them in place of safety. The parameter and guidelines for assessment of plea of bail of a juvenile has been provided in Section 12 of the Act which is as under: - "When any person accused of a bailable or non-bailable offence, and apparently a juvenile, is arrested or detained or appears or is brought before a Board, such person shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) or in any other law for the time being in force, be released on bail with or without surety 1[or placed under the supervision of a Probation Officer or under the care of any fit institution of fit person] but he shall not be so released if there appear reasonable grounds for believing that the release is likely to bring him into association with any known criminal or expose him to moral, physical or psychological danger or that his release would defeat the ends of justice. When such person having been arrested is not released on bail under sub-section (1) by the officer incharge of the police station, such officer shall cause him to be kept only in an observation home in the prescribed manner until he can be brought before a Board. When such person is not released on bail under sub-section (1) by the Board it shall, instead of committing him to prison, make an order sending him to an observation home or a place of safety for such period during the pendency of the inquiry regarding him as may be specified in the order. " Thus it is clear that the provision for release to a juvenile has overriding effect to any provision contained in Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 or in any other law for the time being in force. According to this provision, a duty has been cost to grant bail to a juvenile unless there is a reasonable ground for plea that the release is likely to bring the juvenile into association with any known criminal or exposed the said juvenile to moral, physical or psychological danger or that his release would defeat the end of justice. Plea of bail raised by juvenile cannot be rejected in a mechanical manner. While considering the parameter provided in Section 12 of the Act, nature of offence, role played by the juvenile in committing the offence, his family background, his association with known or unknown criminals or bad elements of society, number of person named in the occurrence and future carrier of juvenile should also be taken into consideration by Juvenile Justice Board or court concerned in addition to the other factors. It has been held by the supreme court in Dr. Subramaniam Swamy vs Raju, 2014 (86) ACC 637 that a juvenile has to be released on bail unless the court has a reasonable ground to believe that his release will bring him into association of some known criminal, or will expose him to moral, physical or psychological danger or his release would defeat the ends of justice. Section 15 of the Amending Act only provides for transfer of a juvenile to the Children Court for trial as an adult. Where the child has attained the age of 16 years and has been alleged to have committed heinous offence, the JJ Board is required to conduct a preliminary inquiry with regard to his mental and physical capacity to commit offence, ability to understand the consequence of the offence and the circumstances in which the offence was committed considering their physical, psychological and mental status in commission of crime. Section 18(3) of the Act provides that after making the assessment under section 15, JJ Board comes to a conclusion that there is a need for trial of the child as an adult, the Board may pass an order for the transfer of the trial of the case to the Children Court. In this case the revisionist was aged about 16 years at the time of occurrence. Admittedly the revisionist was juvenile at the time of occurrence. No material is available on record whereby it can be presumed that the revisionist was in association of any criminal or bad elements. From perusal of impugned judgement and order passed by the appellate Court as well as passed by the Board, it transpires that both the trial court have passed the impugned judgement and orders in cursory manner without placing due reliance on the report submitted by the District Probation Officer as well as facts and circumstances of this case. The impugned judgment and orders are liable to be set aside. Consequently, the revision succeeds and is allowed. Both the impugned judgment and order 21. 10. 2021 and 22. 6. 2021 are hereby set aside. Let the revisionist Satyam Yadav through his natural guardian/father Jai Prakash Yadav be released on bail in the aforesaid criminal case and be given into custody of aforesaid natural guardian on furnishing a personal bond with two solvent sureties of relatives of the aforesaid natural guardian each in like amount to the satisfaction of Juvenile Justice Board concerned on the following conditions. (i)That, Jai Prakash Yadav natural guardian of the revisionist will furnish an undertaking that upon release on bail, the juvenile will not be permitted to go into contact or association with any known or unknown criminal or exposed to any moral or physical danger and will not indulge in any criminal activity and aforesaid natural guardian will make best effort for improvement of juvenile's carrier. (ii)That the revisionist and his aforesaid natural guardian shall remain present before the trial court on each date fixed, either personally or through counsel. Order Date: - 24. 1. 2023

[case 30]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE SUNIL THOMAS MONDAY, THE 25TH DAY OF JUNE 2018 / 4TH ASHADHA, 1940 Bail Appl. .No. 4054 of 2018 (CRIME NO. 548/2018 OF OTTAPALAM POLICE STATION, PALAKKAD) PETITIONER(S)/ACCUSED 1 SANAL KUMAR K. , AGED 36 YEARS, S/O. K. M. UNNIKRISHNAN, ANASWARA, KOOTHAKKURISSY, PANAMANNA P. O. , OTTAPPALAM, PALAKKAD DISTRICT-679 501. 2 UNNIKRISHNAN K. M. , AGED 67 YEARS, ANASWARA, KOOTHAKKURISSY, PANAMANNA P. O. , OTTAPPALAM, PALAKKAD DISTRICT-679 501. 3 RADHA, W/O. UNNIKRISHNAN K. M. , ANASWARA, KOOTHAKKURISSY, PANAMANNA P. O. , OTTAPPALAM, PALAKKAD DISTRICT-679 501. BY ADV. SRI. M. T. SURESHKUMAR RESPONDENT(S)/COMPLAINANT: STATE OF KERALA, REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM-682031. R BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR SMT. V. SREEJA THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING BEEN FINALLY HEARD ON 19-06-2018, THE COURT ON 25/6/2018 PASSED THE FOLLOWING: ORDER The accused in Crime No. 548/2018 of Ottappalam Police station for offences punishable under sections 7 & 8 of POCSO Act 2012 and under section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Care and Protection of Children Act 2015, are the petitioners herein. 2. Admitted facts are as follows; The first petitioner had married the defacto complainant on 27/4/2009. Thereafter, they resided together for some time. The second petitioner is his father and the third petitioner is his mother. A girl child was born, who is aged 7 years now. Matrimonial dispute arose between the parties. It is stated that, on 5/9/2017, the wife left the matrimonial home. The child was in the custody of the petitioners till 15/9/2017, on which day the child was entrusted with the parents of the defacto complainant. The present complaint was laid by the wife alleging that the first petitioner had sexually abused the seven year old girl on few days between 5/9/2017 to 15/9/2017 at the matrimonial home and other places. Apprehending arrest, the petitioners herein have approached the court. 3. The specific contention of the petitioners herein is that, the defacto complainant was a quarrelsome person and matrimonial relationship became incompatible. It was alleged that, the defacto complainant had developed a close intimacy with one doctor who was younger to her. She was found making secret audio and video calls to him over the mobile phone. When the relationship went beyond a limit, the husband intervened and she was warned. It was later understood that she continued to maintain even physical relationship with him. On being confronted with materials, she is stated to have abandoned the child and left the matrimonial home on 5/9/2017. Thereafter, the first petitioner herein entrusted the child to the defacto complainant and her parents, considering the education of the child. The first petitioner herein initiated matrimonial proceedings, including an application for custody of the child. The present complaint was filed belatedly raising absolutely false allegations with the intention of denying him the custody of the child. It was vehemently contended that, the first petitioner herein has not committed any sexual abuse on the minor girl and it was purposefully and belatedly set up. 4. Annexure A1 is a copy of the petition in O. P. (HMA) No. 649/2017 dated 27/10/2017 filed by the first petitioner herein before the Family Court, Malappuram. He claimed divorce on the ground of adultery of the defacto complainant with the doctor, who was arrayed as the second respondent in that O. P. It was alleged therein that, she was having continuous physical relationship with that doctor and was caught with evidence. Annexure A2 is a copy of O. P. ( G & W) No. 356/2018 filed by the first petitioner herein on 24/5/2018 before the Family Court, Malappuram claiming custody of the child. Thereafter, Crime was got registered by the wife at Bangalore as Crime No. 703/2017 on 11/12/2017 against the petitioners herein alleging matrimonial cruelty. The first petitioner sought bail which was granted by Annexure A3 order. It is seen that, she alleged that the petitioners herein committed acts of matrimonial cruelty and demanded dowry and thereby committed offences punishable under section 498A IPC and the provisions of the Dowry Prohibition Act. The petitioner was granted anticipatory bail. Annexure A5 is a complaint filed by the defacto complainant before the State Commission for Protection of Child Child Rights of Kerala and Karnataka, with copies to the various authorities. It was alleged that, the father-in-law of the defacto complainant had made sexual advances towards her. She alleged that, in-laws had administered various medicines on her body. It was also alleged that, the child was physically assaulted by the petitioners during the period from 5/9/2017 to 15/9/2017. There is an allegation that, the grandfather used to beat her on her groin and grand mother had beaten the child with a chapathy rolling pin. Annexure A6 is the complaint No. 20/2018 filed on 24/1/2018 by the defacto complainant under the provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act. 5. The above documents clearly show that, at no point of time earlier, the defacto complainant had a case that the child was sexually abused by the father. Even though physical assault is alleged against the petitioners, there was absolutely no reference anywhere that the child was subjected to sexual abuse by the father. 6. It seems that, for the first time such a complaint is seen raised in the present crime(Crime No. 548/2018 of Ottappalam Police station). Crime was thereupon registered for offences punishable under sections 7 & 8 of POCSO Act and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Care and Protection of Children Act 2015. The crux of the allegation in the FIS is that, during the period when the child was in the custody of the petitioners, the father of the child used to give her a bath. He used to undress her, remove his dress and give her bath. It was stated that in the course of bathing her, the first petitioner used to tickle her. The child has stated that, she did not like boys giving her bath. Pursuant to it, section 164 Cr. P. C. statement of the victim was also recorded, which is substantially in tune with FI statement. 7. It is pertinent to note that the only allegation raised against the first petitioner is as above. Even if the entire statement made by the child is taken at its face value, crucial question that arises is whether the father had any sexual intent while giving the daughter a bath. This has to be appreciated in the background that the allegation comes only at a highly belated stage, when the father himself had sought custody of the child. No explanation is forthcoming for the delay in giving complaint. Hence, the question to be investigated by the police is only whether the first petitioner herein with sexual intention had committed any act. For that, custodial interrogation does not appear to be warranted. It is also clear that, in such a very strained matrimonial relationship a belated allegation of this nature has to be considered carefully and it may not be safe to order custodial interrogation. 8. Having regard to the above, I am inclined to grant benefit of anticipatory bail to the petitioners herein subject to the following conditions: i). Petitioners shall appear before the investigating officer within ten days from today and shall undergo interrogation. Thereafter, if they are proposed to be arrested, they shall be released on bail on each of the petitioner executing a bond for a sum of Rs. 50, 000/-(Rupees fifty thousand only) with two sureties for the like sum each. ii). They shall appear before the Investigating Officer as and when called for and co-operate with the investigation. Anticipatory Bail Application is allowed.

[case 31]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE SUNIL THOMAS MONDAY, THE 25TH DAY OF JUNE 2018 / 4TH ASHADHA, 1940 Bail Appl. .No. 4054 of 2018 (CRIME NO. 548/2018 OF OTTAPPALAM POLICE STATION, PALAKKAD) PETITIONER(S)/ACCUSED 1 SANAL KUMAR K. , AGED 36 YEARS, S/O. K. M. UNNIKRISHNAN, ANASWARA, KOOTHAKKURISSY, PANAMANNA P. O. , OTTAPPALAM, PALAKKAD DISTRICT-679 501. 2 UNNIKRISHNAN K. M. , AGED 67 YEARS, ANASWARA, KOOTHAKKURISSY, PANAMANNA P. O. , OTTAPPALAM, PALAKKAD DISTRICT-679 501. 3 RADHA, W/O. UNNIKRISHNAN K. M. , ANASWARA, KOOTHAKKURISSY, PANAMANNA P. O. , OTTAPPALAM, PALAKKAD DISTRICT-679 501. BY ADV. SRI. M. T. SURESHKUMAR RESPONDENT(S)/COMPLAINANT: STATE OF KERALA, REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM-682031. R BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR SMT. V. SREEJA THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING BEEN FINALLY HEARD ON 19-06-2018, THE COURT ON 25/6/2018 PASSED THE FOLLOWING: ORDER The accused in Crime No. 548/2018 of Ottappalam Police station for offences punishable under sections 7 & 8 of POCSO Act 2012 and under section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Care and Protection of Children Act 2015, are the petitioners herein. Admitted facts are as follows; The first petitioner had married the defacto complainant on 27/4/2009. Thereafter, they resided together for some time. The second petitioner is his father and the third petitioner is his mother. A girl child was born, who is aged 7 years now. Matrimonial dispute arose between the parties. It is stated that, on 5/9/2017, the wife left the matrimonial home. The child was in the custody of the petitioners till 15/9/2017, on which day the child was entrusted with the parents of the defacto complainant. The present complaint was laid by the wife alleging that the first petitioner had sexually abused the seven year old girl on few days between 5/9/2017 to 15/9/2017 at the matrimonial home and other places. Apprehending arrest, the petitioners herein have approached this court. The specific contention of the petitioners herein is that, the defacto complainant was a quarrelsome person and matrimonial relationship became incompatible. It was alleged that, the defacto complainant had developed a close intimacy with one doctor who was younger to her. She was found making secret audio and video calls to him over the mobile phone. When the relationship went beyond a limit, the husband intervened and she was warned. It was later understood that she continued to maintain even physical relationship with him. On being confronted with materials, she is stated to have abandoned the child and left the matrimonial home on 5/9/2017. Thereafter, the first petitioner herein entrusted the child to the defacto complainant and her parents, considering the education of the child. The first petitioner herein initiated matrimonial proceedings, including an application for custody of the child. The present complaint was filed belatedly raising absolutely false allegations with the intention of denying him the custody of the child. It was vehemently contended that, the first petitioner herein has not committed any sexual abuse on the minor girl and it was purposefully and belatedly set up. Annexure A1 is a copy of the petition in O. P. (HMA) No. 649/2017 dated 27/10/2017 filed by the first petitioner herein before the Family Court, Malappuram. He claimed divorce on the ground of adultery of the defacto complainant with the doctor, who was arrayed as the second respondent in that O. P. It was alleged therein that, she was having continuous physical relationship with that doctor and was caught with evidence. Annexure A2 is a copy of O. P. ( G & W) No. 356/2018 filed by the first petitioner herein on 24/5/2018 before the Family Court, Malappalam claiming custody of the child. Thereafter, Crime was got registered by the wife at Bangalore as Crime No. 703/2017 on 11/12/2017 against the petitioners herein alleging matrimonial cruelty. The first petitioner sought bail which was granted by Annexure A3 order. It is seen that, she alleged that the petitioners herein committed acts of matrimonial cruelty and demanded dowry and thereby committed offences punishable under section 498A IPC and the provisions of the Dowry Prohibition Act. The petitioner was granted anticipatory bail. Annexure A5 is a complaint filed by the defacto complainant before the State Commission for Protection of Child Child Rights of Kerala and Karnataka, with copies to the various authorities. It was alleged that, the father-in-law of the defacto complainant had made sexual advances towards her. She alleged that, in-laws had administered various medicines on her body. It was also alleged that, the child was physically assaulted by the petitioners during the period from 5/9/2017 to 15/9/2017. There is an allegation that, the grandfather used to beat her on her groin and grandmother had beaten the child with a chapathy rolling pin. Annexure A6 is the complaint No. 20/2018 filed on 24/1/2018 by the defacto complainant under the provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act. The above documents clearly show that, at no point of time earlier, the defacto complainant had a case that the child was sexually abused by the father. Even though physical assault is alleged against the petitioners, there was absolutely no reference anywhere that the child was subjected to sexual abuse by the father. It seems that, for the first time such a complaint is seen raised in the present crime(Crime No. 548/2018 of Ottappalam Police station). Crime was thereupon registered for offences punishable under sections 7 & 8 of POCSO Act and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Care and Protection of Children Act 2015. The crux of the allegation in the FIS is that, during the period when the child was in the custody of the petitioners, the father of the child used to give her a bath. He used to undress her, remove his dress and give her bath. It was stated that in the course of bathing her, the first petitioner used to tickle her. The child has stated that, she did not like boys giving her bath. Pursuant to it, section 164 Cr. P. C. statement of the victim was also recorded, which is substantially in tune with FI statement. It is pertinent to note that the only allegation raised against the first petitioner is as above. Even if the entire statement made by the child is taken at its face value, crucial question that arises is whether the father had any sexual intent while giving the daughter a bath. This has to be appreciated in the background that the allegation comes only at a highly belated stage, when the father himself had sought custody of the child. No explanation is forthcoming for the delay in giving complaint. Hence, the question to be investigated by the police is only whether the first petitioner herein with sexual intention had committed any act. For that, custodial interrogation does not appear to be warranted. It is also clear that, in such a very strained matrimonial relationship a belated allegation of this nature has to be considered carefully and it may not be safe to order custodial interrogation. Having regard to the above, I am inclined to grant benefit of anticipatory bail to the petitioners herein subject to the following conditions: i). Petitioners shall appear before the investigating officer within ten days from today and shall undergo interrogation. Thereafter, if they are proposed to be arrested, they shall be released on bail on each of the petitioner executing a bond for a sum of Rs. 50, 000/-(Rupees fifty thousand only) with two sureties for the like sum each. ii). They shall appear before the Investigating Officer as and when called for and co-operate with the investigation. Anticipatory Bail Application is allowed.

[case 32]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE SUNIL THOMAS MONDAY, THE 25TH DAY OF JUNE 2018 / 4TH ASHADHA, 1940 Bail Appl. .No. 4054 of 2018 (CRIME NO. 548/2018 OF OTTAPALAM POLICE STATION, PALAKKAD) PETITIONER(S)/ACCUSED 1 SANAL KUMAR K. , AGED 36 YEARS, S/O. K. M. UNNIKRISHNAN, ANASWARA, KOOTHAKKURISSY, PANAMANNA P. O. , OTTAPPALAM, PALAKKAD DISTRICT-679 501. 2 UNNIKRISHNAN K. M. , AGED 67 YEARS, ANASWARA, KOOTHAKKURISSY, PANAMANNA P. O. , OTTAPPALAM, PALAKKAD DISTRICT-679 501. 3 RADHA, W/O. UNNIKRISHNAN K. M. , ANASWARA, KOOTHAKKURISSY, PANAMANNA P. O. , OTTAPPALAM, PALAKKAD DISTRICT-679 501. BY ADV. SRI. M. T. SURESHKUMAR RESPONDENT(S)/COMPLAINANT: STATE OF KERALA, REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM-682031. R BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR SMT. V. SREEJA THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING BEEN FINALLY HEARD ON 19-06-2018, THE COURT ON 25/6/2018 PASSED THE FOLLOWING: ORDER The accused in Crime No. 548/2018 of Ottappalam Police station for offences punishable under sections 7 & 8 of POCSO Act 2012 and under section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Care and Protection of Children Act 2015, are the petitioners herein. Admitted facts are as follows; The first petitioner had married the defacto complainant on 27/4/2009. Thereafter, they resided together for some time. The second petitioner is his father and the third petitioner is his mother. A girl child was born, who is aged 7 years now. Matrimonial dispute arose between the parties. It is stated that, on 5/9/2017, the wife left the matrimonial home. The child was in the custody of the petitioners till 15/9/2017, on which day the child was entrusted with the parents of the defacto complainant. The present complaint was laid by the wife alleging that the first petitioner had sexually abused the seven year old girl on few days between 5/9/2017 to 15/9/2017 at the matrimonial home and other places. Apprehending arrest, the petitioners herein have approached this court. The specific contention of the petitioners herein is that, the defacto complainant was a quarrelsome person and matrimonial relationship became incompatible. It was alleged that, the defacto complainant had developed a close intimacy with one doctor who was younger to her. She was found making secret audio and video calls to him over the mobile phone. When the relationship went beyond a limit, the husband intervened and she was warned. It was later understood that she continued to maintain even physical relationship with him. On being confronted with materials, she is stated to have abandoned the child and left the matrimonial home on 5/9/2017. Thereafter, the first petitioner herein entrusted the child to the defacto complainant and her parents, considering the education of the child. The first petitioner herein initiated matrimonial proceedings, including an application for custody of the child. The present complaint was filed belatedly raising absolutely false allegations with the intention of denying him the custody of the child. It was vehemently contended that, the first petitioner herein has not committed any sexual abuse on the minor girl and it was purposefully and belatedly set up. Annexure A1 is a copy of the petition in O. P. (HMA) No. 649/2017 dated 27/10/2017 filed by the first petitioner herein before the Family Court, Malappuram. He claimed divorce on the ground of adultery of the defacto complainant with the doctor, who was arrayed as the second respondent in that O. P. It was alleged therein that, she was having continuous physical relationship with that doctor and was caught with evidence. Annexure A2 is a copy of O. P. ( G & W) No. 356/2018 filed by the first petitioner herein on 24/5/2018 before the Family Court, Malappuram claiming custody of the child. Thereafter, Crime was got registered by the wife at Bangalore as Crime No. 703/2017 on 11/12/2017 against the petitioners herein alleging matrimonial cruelty. The first petitioner sought bail which was granted by Annexure A3 order. It is seen that, she alleged that the petitioners herein committed acts of matrimonial cruelty and demanded dowry and thereby committed offences punishable under section 498A IPC and the provisions of the Dowry Prohibition Act. The petitioner was granted anticipatory bail. Annexure A5 is a complaint filed by the defacto complainant before the State Commission for Protection of Child Child Rights of Kerala and Karnataka, with copies to the various authorities. It was alleged that, the father-in-law of the defacto complainant had made sexual advances towards her. She alleged that, in-laws had administered various medicines on her body. It was also alleged that, the child was physically assaulted by the petitioners during the period from 5/9/2017 to 15/9/2017. There is an allegation that, the grandfather used to beat her on her groin and grandmother had beaten the child with a chapathy rolling pin. Annexure A6 is the complaint No. 20/2018 filed on 24/1/2018 by the defacto complainant under the provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act. The above documents clearly show that, at no point of time earlier, the defacto complainant had a case that the child was sexually abused by the father. Even though physical assault is alleged against the petitioners, there was absolutely no reference anywhere that the child was subjected to sexual abuse by the father. It seems that, for the first time such a complaint is seen raised in the present crime(Crime No. 548/2018 of Ottappalam Police station). Crime was thereupon registered for offences punishable under sections 7 & 8 of POCSO Act and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Care and Protection of Children Act 2015. The crux of the allegation in the FIS is that, during the period when the child was in the custody of the petitioners, the father of the child used to give her a bath. He used to undress her, remove his dress and give her bath. It was stated that in the course of bathing her, the first petitioner used to tickle her. The child has stated that, she did not like boys giving her bath. Pursuant to it, section 164 Cr. P. C. statement of the victim was also recorded, which is substantially in tune with FI statement. It is pertinent to note that the only allegation raised against the first petitioner is as above. Even if the entire statement made by the child is taken at its face value, crucial question that arises is whether the father had any sexual intent while giving the daughter a bath. This has to be appreciated in the background that the allegation comes only at a highly belated stage, when the father himself had sought custody of the child. No explanation is forthcoming for the delay in giving complaint. Hence, the question to be investigated by the police is only whether the first petitioner herein with sexual intention had committed any act. For that, custodial interrogation does not appear to be warranted. It is also clear that, in such a very strained matrimonial relationship a belated allegation of this nature has to be considered carefully and it may not be safe to order custodial interrogation. Having regard to the above, I am inclined to grant benefit of anticipatory bail to the petitioners herein subject to the following conditions: i). Petitioners shall appear before the investigating officer within ten days from today and shall undergo interrogation. Thereafter, if they are proposed to be arrested, they shall be released on bail on each of the petitioner executing a bond for a sum of Rs. 50, 000/-(Rupees fifty thousand only) with two sureties for the like sum each. ii). They shall appear before the Investigating Officer as and when called for and co-operate with the investigation. Anticipatory Bail Application is allowed.

[case 33]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE SUNIL THOMAS MONDAY, THE 25TH DAY OF JUNE 2018 / 4TH ASHADHA, 1940 Bail Appl. .No. 4054 of 2018 (CRIME NO. 548/2018 OF OTTAPALAM POLICE STATION, PALAKKAD) PETITIONER(S)/ACCUSED 1 SANAL KUMAR K. , AGED 36 YEARS, S/O. K. M. UNNIKRISHNAN, ANASWARA, KOOTHAKKURISSY, PANAMANNA P. O. , OTTAPPALAM, PALAKKAD DISTRICT-679 501. 2 UNNIKRISHNAN K. M. , AGED 67 YEARS, ANASWARA, KOOTHAKKURISSY, PANAMANNA P. O. , OTTAPPALAM, PALAKKAD DISTRICT-679 501. 3 RADHA, W/O. UNNIKRISHNAN K. M. , ANASWARA, KOOTHAKKURISSY, PANAMANNA P. O. , OTTAPPALAM, PALAKKAD DISTRICT-679 501. BY ADV. SRI. M. T. SURESHKUMAR RESPONDENT(S)/COMPLAINANT: STATE OF KERALA, REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM-682031. R BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR SMT. V. SREEJA THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING BEEN FINALLY HEARD ON 19-06-2018, THE COURT ON 25/6/2018 PASSED THE FOLLOWING: ORDER The accused in Crime No. 548/2018 of Ottappalam Police station for offences punishable under sections 7 & 8 of POCSO Act 2012 and under section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Care and Protection of Children Act 2015, are the petitioners herein. Admitted facts are as follows; The first petitioner had married the defacto complainant on 27/4/2009. Thereafter, they resided together for some time. The second petitioner is his father and the third petitioner is his mother. A girl child was born, who is aged 7 years now. Matrimonial dispute arose between the parties. It is stated that, on 5/9/2017, the wife left the matrimonial home. The child was in the custody of the petitioners till 15/9/2017, on which day the child was entrusted with the parents of the defacto complainant. The present complaint was laid by the wife alleging that the first petitioner had sexually abused the seven year old girl on few days between 5/9/2017 to 15/9/2017 at the matrimonial home and other places. Apprehending arrest, the petitioners herein have approached the court. The specific contention of the petitioners herein is that, the defacto complainant was a quarrelsome person and matrimonial relationship became incompatible. It was alleged that, the defacto complainant had developed a close intimacy with one doctor who was younger to her. She was found making secret audio and video calls to him over the mobile phone. When the relationship went beyond a limit, the husband intervened and she was warned. It was later understood that she continued to maintain even physical relationship with him. On being confronted with materials, she is stated to have abandoned the child and left the matrimonial home on 5/9/2017. Thereafter, the first petitioner herein entrusted the child to the defacto complainant and her parents, considering the education of the child. The first petitioner herein initiated matrimonial proceedings, including an application for custody of the child. The present complaint was filed belatedly raising absolutely false allegations with the intention of denying him the custody of the child. It was vehemently contended that, the first petitioner herein has not committed any sexual abuse on the minor girl and it was purposefully and belatedly set up. Annexure A1 is a copy of the petition in O. P. (HMA) No. 649/2017 dated 27/10/2017 filed by the first petitioner herein before the Family Court, Malappuram. He claimed divorce on the ground of adultery of the defacto complainant with the doctor, who was arrayed as the second respondent in that O. P. It was alleged therein that, she was having continuous physical relationship with that doctor and was caught with evidence. Annexure A2 is a copy of O. P. ( G & W) No. 356/2018 filed by the first petitioner herein on 24/5/2018 before the Family Court, Malappuram claiming custody of the child. Thereafter, Crime was got registered by the wife at Bangalore as Crime No. 703/2017 on 11/12/2017 against the petitioners herein alleging matrimonial cruelty. The first petitioner sought bail which was granted by Annexure A3 order. It is seen that, she alleged that the petitioners herein committed acts of matrimonial cruelty and demanded dowry and thereby committed offences punishable under section 498A IPC and the provisions of the Dowry Prohibition Act. The petitioner was granted anticipatory bail. Annexure A5 is a complaint filed by the defacto complainant before the State Commission for Protection of Child Child Rights of Kerala and Karnataka, with copies to the various authorities. It was alleged that, the father-in-law of the defacto complainant had made sexual advances towards her. She alleged that, in-laws had administered various medicines on her body. It was also alleged that, the child was physically assaulted by the petitioners during the period from 5/9/2017 to 15/9/2017. There is an allegation that, the grandfather used to beat her on her groin and grand mother had beaten the child with a chapathy rolling pin. Annexure A6 is the complaint No. 20/2018 filed on 24/1/2018 by the defacto complainant under the provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act. The above documents clearly show that, at no point of time earlier, the defacto complainant had a case that the child was sexually abused by the father. Even though physical assault is alleged against the petitioners, there was absolutely no reference anywhere that the child was subjected to sexual abuse by the father. It seems that, for the first time such a complaint is seen raised in the present crime(Crime No. 548/2018 of Ottappalam Police station). Crime was thereupon registered for offences punishable under sections 7 & 8 of POCSO Act and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Care and Protection of Children Act 2015. The crux of the allegation in the FIS is that, during the period when the child was in the custody of the petitioners, the father of the child used to give her a bath. He used to undress her, remove his dress and give her bath. It was stated that in the course of bathing her, the first petitioner used to tickle her. The child has stated that, she did not like boys giving her bath. Pursuant to it, section 164 Cr. P. C. statement of the victim was also recorded, which is substantially in tune with FI statement. It is pertinent to note that the only allegation raised against the first petitioner is as above. Even if the entire statement made by the child is taken at its face value, crucial question that arises is whether the father had any sexual intent while giving the daughter a bath. This has to be appreciated in the background that the allegation comes only at a highly belated stage, when the father himself had sought custody of the child. No explanation is forthcoming for the delay in giving complaint. Hence, the question to be investigated by the police is only whether the first petitioner herein with sexual intention had committed any act. For that, custodial interrogation does not appear to be warranted. It is also clear that, in such a very strained matrimonial relationship a belated allegation of this nature has to be considered carefully and it may not be safe to order custodial interrogation. Having regard to the above, I am inclined to grant benefit of anticipatory bail to the petitioners herein subject to the following conditions: i). Petitioners shall appear before the investigating officer within ten days from today and shall undergo interrogation. Thereafter, if they are proposed to be arrested, they shall be released on bail on each of the petitioner executing a bond for a sum of Rs. 50, 000/-(Rupees fifty thousand only) with two sureties for the like sum each. ii). They shall appear before the Investigating Officer as and when called for and co-operate with the investigation. Anticipatory Bail Application is allowed.

[case 34]
Delhi District Court State vs. Dilip S/O Sh. Kamal Kishore Yadav on 24 September, 2015 IN THE COURT OF SH. SIDHARTH SHARMA ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE-01 & SPECIAL JUDGE (NDPS) SHAHDARA DISTRICT, KARKARDOOMA COURTS, DELHI FIR No. : 17/2013 Under Sections: 509 IPC and 12 POCSO Act Police Station: Anand Vihar Sessions Case No. : 107/2013 Unique ID No. : 02402R0305352013 In the matter of: STATE Vs. DILIP S/o Sh. Kamal Kishore Yadav R/o D-540, LN 30 D-Block, Harsh Vihar, Delhi. .. .. .. .Accused Date of institution: 18. 09. 2013 Date of reserving judgment: 23. 09. 2015 Date of pronouncement: 24. 09. 2015 JUDGMENT 1. Briefly stated, the facts of the prosecution case are that on 11. 01. 2013, the minor child (female), aged 16 years (hereinafter referred as minor victim/prosecutrix), came at PS Anand Vihar and made a complaint against the accused Dilip for outraging her modesty by making gesture and using abusive language to her. SI Gunjan Singh present at the PS recorded statement of the prosecutrix wherein prosecutrix stated that she had studied upto 5th class and her parents run a stall of ironing the clothes in front of B-124, Anand Vihar, Delhi. She further states that one Dilip s/o Sh. Kamal Kishore Yadav, r/o D-540, LN 30 D-Block, Harsh Vihar, Delhi, aged 27 years who is a driver at B-70, Anand Vihar is known to her for last two years. He used to watch her for last few days and used to make gestures by waiving his hands and by making comments and used to ask her to have friendship with him. The complainant/prosecutrix alleged that on 10. 01. 2013, at 07. 00 p. m. , accused made a call to her and at that time her parents saw her while talking to him over phone and in anger, they gave beatings to her. She alleged that said Dilip had outraged her modesty by making gestures and making comments and prayed for legal action against the accused. 2. On the aforesaid complaint of prosecutrix, offences u/s 509 IPC and Section 12 POCSO Act were made out against the accused and accordingly IO SI Gunjan Singh got lodged the present case FIR and conducted the investigation. During investigation, IO arrested the accused; produced the prosecutrix before ld. MM who recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr. PC wherein she supported her statement made to the police; recorded statement of witnesses and after completion of investigation, filed the charge-sheet. 3. Vide order dated 09. 12. 2013, my ld. Predecessor framed the charge for offence u/s 509 IPC and 12 POCSO Act against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 4. The prosecution in support of its case examined five witnesses: (a) PW1 Smt. Laxmi is the mother of the prosecutrix. (b) PW2 is the prosecutrix who turned totally hostile to the case of prosecution. (c) PW3 is Smt. Geeta, Primary Teacher from Nigam Pratibha Vidyalaya, Anand Vihar, who proved the date of birth of prosecutrix as 15. 012. 1996 as per school record. (d) PW4 HC Prakash Veer is the Duty Officer. He proved the present case FIR. (e) PW5 is HC Narender Kumar who proved DD No. 21-A regarding information received from PCR about the incident of present case. 5. It was seen that the prosecution cited total 10 witnesses out of which 5 witnesses were examined in this case and PW1 and PW2 who are the only material witnesses in this case, did not support the case of prosecution and were declared hostile and were cross-examined by ld. Addl. PP for State. In these circumstances, no useful purpose would have been served in continuing the trial as the prosecution could not have succeeded in securing conviction of the accused even after examining the remaining witnesses who are formal in nature. Hence, the prosecution evidence was closed. 6. Statement of accused u/s 313 Cr. PC was recorded wherein he stated that he was innocent and was falsely implicated in this case by the police. He stated that prosecutrix was his friend and while she was talking to him over phone, her mother gave her merciless beatings and that is why he made a call at 100 and thereafter, as a counter-blast present false case was lodged against him. 7. I have heard submissions from Sh. Anil Kumar, learned Additional Public Prosecutor for State and from Sh. V. S. Chauhan Advocate for accused. I have also gone through the record. 8. For proving the offence u/s 509 IPC, the essential ingredient of mens-rea on the part of the accused is that there should be a clear intention to outrage the modesty of a woman and thereafter word or gesture had been made by the accused which intrudes the privacy of such woman. Similarly, for proving the offence u/s 12 POCSO Act, it is seen that sexual harassment upon the child by the accused should be with 'sexual intent' i. e. mens-rea of sexual intent before making any sound or gesture is a pre-requisite. 9. In order to appreciate if the ingredient of mense-rea have been satisfied, the evidence of material witnesses is required to be appreciated. The fate of this case depends upon the testimony of both the material witnesses examined in this case i. e. PW2 prosecutrix and PW1 Smt. Laxmi, mother of the prosecutrix as other witnesses are formal witnesses. PW2 the minor victim/prosecutrix/complainant is the star material witness and on her statement the present case FIR was registered. In her testimony before the court, she did not support her allegations as leveled by her in her statements to police as well as before ld. MM. On the contrary, PW1 deposed that in the summer of 2013 at about 01. 00 p. m. , while she was talking to the accused Dilip on the mobile phone sent by him, her parents noticed the same and gave beatings to her daughter/ prosecutrix. PW1 further stated that she saw the accused making some gesture with his hand towards the prosecutrix. However, in her cross-examination, PW1 admitted that her daughter had voluntarily taken mobile phone from the accused due to which she gave beatings to her daughter/prosecutrix. She admitted that her daughter was talking to the accused voluntarily and thereafter, she scolded her. She also admitted that it was the accused who had made call at 100 number after seeing that she was beating her daughter. She admitted that she did not make any call or complaint to the police. 11. Upon perusal of the testimony of both the material witnesses i. e. PW1 Smt. Laxmi and PW2 prosecutrix, I am of the considered opinion that both the material witnesses are totally hostile to the case of prosecution and have failed to prove the ingredients of offence u/s 509 IPC and u/s 12 POCSO Act against the accused. There is not even an iota of evidence to prove the ingredients of the aforesaid offences so as to make the case of prosecution stand on its own legs. Thus, prosecution miserably failed to prove its case against the accused and therefore, accused is entitled for acquittal. Therefore, I acquit the accused Dilip of the offences for which he has been charged with in the present case. Accused is on bail. His bail bond stands cancelled and surety is discharged. 12. However, accused is directed to furnish Personal Bond and Surety Bond u/s 437-A Cr. PC in sum of Rs. 10, 000/- each for a period of six months, within a week from today. 13. File be consigned to Record Room after due compliance. Announced in the open court today on 24th September, 2015 (SIDHARTH SHARMA) Addl. Sessions Judge-01 & Spl. Judge (NDPS) Shahdara/Karkardooma Courts/Delhi

[case 35]
Delhi District Court State vs. Dilip S/O Sh. Kamal Kishore Yadav on 24 September, 2015 IN THE COURT OF SH. SIDHARTH SHARMA ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE-01 & SPECIAL JUDGE (NDPS) SHAHDARA DISTRICT, KARKARDOOMA COURTS, DELHI FIR No. : 17/2013 Under Sections: 509 IPC and 12 POCSO Act Police Station: Anand Vihar Sessions Case No. : 107/2013 Unique ID No. : 02402R0305352013 In the matter of: STATE Vs. DILIP S/o Sh. Kamal Kishore Yadav R/o D-540, LN 30 D-Block, Harsh Vihar, Delhi. .. .. .. .Accused Date of institution: 18. 09. 2013 Date of reserving judgment: 23. 09. 2015 Date of pronouncement: 24. 09. 2015 JUDGMENT 1. Briefly stated, the facts of the prosecution case are that on 11. 01. 2013, the minor child (female), aged 16 years (hereinafter referred as minor victim/prosecutrix), came at PS Anand Vihar and made a complaint against the accused Dilip for outraging her modesty by making gesture and using abusive language to her. SI Gunjan Singh present at the PS recorded statement of the prosecutrix wherein prosecutrix stated that she had studied upto 5th class and her parents run a stall of ironing the clothes in front of B-124, Anand Vihar, Delhi. She further states that one Dilip s/o Sh. Kamal Kishore Yadav, r/o D-540, LN 30 D-Block, Harsh Vihar, Delhi, aged 27 years who is a driver at B-70, Anand Vihar is known to her for last two years. He used to watch her for last few days and used to make gestures by waiving his hands and by making comments and used to ask her to have friendship with him. The complainant/prosecutrix alleged that on 10. 01. 2013, at 07. 00 p. m. , accused made a call to her and at that time her parents saw her while talking to him over phone and in anger, they gave beatings to her. She alleged that said Dilip had outraged her modesty by making gestures and making comments and prayed for legal action against the accused. 2. On the aforesaid complaint of prosecutrix, offences u/s 509 IPC and Section 12 POCSO Act were made out against the accused and accordingly IO SI Gunjan Singh got lodged the present case FIR and conducted the investigation. During investigation, IO arrested the accused; produced the prosecutrix before ld. MM who recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr. PC wherein she supported her statement made to the police; recorded statement of witnesses and after completion of investigation, filed the charge-sheet. 3. Vide order dated 09. 12. 2013, my ld. Predecessor framed the charge for offence u/s 509 IPC and 12 POCSO Act against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 4. The prosecution in support of its case examined five witnesses: (a) PW1 Smt. Laxmi is the mother of the prosecutrix. (b) PW2 is the prosecutrix who turned totally hostile to the case of prosecution. (c) PW3 is Smt. Geeta, Primary Teacher from Nigam Pratibha Vidyalaya, Anand Vihar, who proved the date of birth of prosecutrix as 15. 012. 1996 as per school record. (d) PW4 HC Prakash Veer is the Duty Officer. He proved the present case FIR. (e) PW5 is HC Narender Kumar who proved DD No. 21-A regarding information received from PCR about the incident of present case. 5. It was seen that the prosecution cited total 10 witnesses out of which 5 witnesses were examined in this case and PW1 and PW2 who are the only material witnesses in this case, did not support the case of prosecution and were declared hostile and were cross-examined by ld. Addl. PP for State. In these circumstances, no useful purpose would have been served in continuing the trial as the prosecution could not have succeeded in securing conviction of the accused even after examining the remaining witnesses who are formal in nature. Hence, the prosecution evidence was closed. 6. Statement of accused u/s 313 Cr. PC was recorded wherein he stated that he was innocent and was falsely implicated in this case by the police. He stated that prosecutrix was his friend and while she was talking to him over phone, her mother gave her merciless beatings and that is why he made a call at 100 and thereafter, as a counter-blast present false case was lodged against him. 7. I have heard submissions from Sh. Anil Kumar, learned Additional Public Prosecutor for State and from Sh. V. S. Chauhan Advocate for accused. I have also gone through the record. 8. For proving the offence u/s 509 IPC, the essential ingredient of mens-rea on the part of the accused is that there should be a clear intention to outrage the modesty of a woman and thereafter word or gesture had been made by the accused which intrudes the privacy of such woman. Similarly, for proving the offence u/s 12 POCSO Act, it is seen that sexual harassment upon the child by the accused should be with 'sexual intent' i. e. mens-rea of sexual intent before making any sound or gesture is a pre-requisite. 9. In order to appreciate if the ingredient of mense-rea have been satisfied, the evidence of material witnesses is required to be appreciated. The fate of this case depends upon the testimony of both the material witnesses examined in this case i. e. PW2 prosecutrix and PW1 Smt. Laxmi, mother of the prosecutrix as other witnesses are formal witnesses. PW2 the minor victim/prosecutrix/complainant is the star material witness and on her statement the present case FIR was registered. In her testimony before the court, she did not support her allegations as leveled by her in her statements to police as well as before ld. MM. On the contrary, PW1 deposed that in the summer of 2013 at about 01. 00 p. m. , while she was talking to the accused Dilip on the mobile phone sent by him, her parents noticed the same and gave beatings to her daughter/ prosecutrix. PW1 further stated that she saw the accused making some gesture with his hand towards the prosecutrix. However, in her cross-examination, PW1 admitted that her daughter had voluntarily taken mobile phone from the accused due to which she gave beatings to her daughter/prosecutrix. She admitted that her daughter was talking to the accused voluntarily and thereafter, she scolded her. She also admitted that it was the accused who had made call at 100 number after seeing that she was beating her daughter. She admitted that she did not make any call or complaint to the police. 11. Upon perusal of the testimony of both the material witnesses i. e. PW1 Smt. Laxmi and PW2 prosecutrix, I am of the considered opinion that both the material witnesses are totally hostile to the case of prosecution and have failed to prove the ingredients of offence u/s 509 IPC and u/s 12 POCSO Act against the accused. There is not even an iota of evidence to prove the ingredients of the aforesaid offences so as to make the case of prosecution stand on its own legs. Thus, prosecution miserably failed to prove its case against the accused and therefore, accused is entitled for acquittal. Therefore, I acquit the accused Dilip of the offences for which he has been charged with in the present case. Accused is on bail. His bail bond stands cancelled and surety is discharged. 12. However, accused is directed to furnish Personal Bond and Surety Bond u/s 437-A Cr. PC in sum of Rs. 10, 000/- each for a period of six months, within a week from today. 13. File be consigned to Record Room after due compliance. Announced in the open court today on 24th September, 2015 (SIDHARTH SHARMA) Addl. Sessions Judge-01 & Spl. Judge (NDPS) Shahdara/Karkardooma Courts/Delhi

[case 36]
AGAINST THE ORDER IN CRMC 856/2021 OF SPECIAL COURT UNDER POCSO
CRIME NO. 114 OF 2021 OF CHERUPUZHA POLICE STATION
PETITIONER/ACCUSED:
BY ADV P. P. RAMACHANDRAN
RESPONDENT/COMPLAINANT:
STATE OF KERALA
(S. H. O. CHERUPUZHA POLICE STATION) REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC
PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM - 682 031.
BY ADV SHRI. P. NARAYANAN, ADDL. PUBLIC PROSECUTOR
THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON
11. 08. 2021, THE COURT ON 13. 08. 2021 PASSED THE FOLLOWING:
DATED THIS THE 13TH DAY OF AUGUST, 2021
This application for regular bail has been filed by the
petitioner/the accused in Crime No. 114 of 2021 of Cherupuzha
Police Station registered for the offences punishable under Section
306 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 4 read with Section 3(a), 12
read with 11(iv) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,
Sections 3(1), (W), 3(2)(V) of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe
Prevention of Atrocities Act and Section 67B of Information
Technology Act.
The petitioner has been in custody since 16. 06. 2021.
The prosecution case is that a minor girl aged 17
years who belongs to Scheduled Caste community, the daughter of
the informant's uncle, was found dead on 09. 06. 2021. She was
found hanging in her bedroom in the wee hours of 09. 06. 2021.
Though she was rushed to the hospital by the relatives including
the informant, she was declared dead. A crime was registered
under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thereafter
postmortem examination was conducted on the body of the
deceased in the Medical College, Pariyaram where it was found by
the doctor who conducted the autopsy that she was subjected to
penetrative sexual assault. Then case was registered under
Sections 376(2) of IPC and Section 3(a) read with Section 4 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Subsequently,
investigation has started and thus the sections have been altered
as aforementioned.
According to the learned appearing for the petitioner,
he has been falsely implicated in the case at the instance of some
of his friends who are on inimical terms with him. Absolutely he
has no role in the alleged incident and he never abetted the girl to
commit suicide at any point of time as alleged by the prosecution.
He has also not committed any kind of sexual abuse or harassment
as alleged, still he is undergoing unnecessary incarceration and
hence, this application.
Per contra, the learned Additional Director General of
Prosecution vehemently opposed the application. It was pointed
out that this petitioner came in contact with the deceased through
Facebook. Thereafter he managed to develop intimacy with the
minor girl by making frequent calls and also sending messages.
When the intimacy had developed, he used to take the victim girl to
various places and started to abuse her sexually. When the minor
girl was residing along with her grandmother he had even
approached her and stayed at their house by making them to
believe that he would marry her when she attains the age of
majority. In fact, the mobile phone which was found in the
possession of the minor child was presented by this petitioner so as
to trap her in the relationship, so as to satisfy his lust. He was
working as a bus conductor and he exploited the innocence of this
girl by making frequent calls and messages and she had even
forwarded her nude photographs to him as instigated by him, and
he had sex with this minor girl quite frequently. But later when she
made the request to marry her, he had deviated from his promise
and had tried to keep away from her and in fact his reluctance or
refusal to marry her, had led her to commit suicide and thus he
abetted her to commit suicide on 09. 06. 2021, is the argument
advanced by the learned ADGP.
Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner as well
the learned ADGP. Perused the CD file.
As mentioned earlier, the records would reveal that the
case was actually registered under Section 174 of the Cr. P. C. ,
on 09. 06. 2021. Later, on receipt of the postmortem report, the
police has investigated the case and then it was revealed that her
death was because of the involvement of some perpetrator and
when the call details of her mobile phone were collected by the
investigating agency, it unfolded the mysterious relationship of this
petitioner with the deceased. Thereafter further investigation by
recording the statements of the relatives, friends and others who
are closely connected with the deceased was conducted and then
only it was realized that this petitioner was taking advantage of his
intimacy with her and he had abused her sexually though she was a
minor girl. The CD file further reveals that he used to visit her
quite often and sent obscene messages to her and prompted her to
send her nude photographs after giving a false promise that he
would marry her in near future. So, she was having close
acquaintance with him and it was exploited by him for having
sexual relationship with her. She was residing along with her
grandmother and he had visited her at that house and even stayed
with her under that false promise of marriage. The last visit of this
petitioner to her residence was on 13. 02. 2021. As the petitioner
had indulged in instigating her to commit suicide, the investigating
agency has to probe into the details of the mysterious death, to
collect more materials for the prosecution to prove the case.
It is also pointed out by the learned ADGP that this
petitioner, who was working as a bus conductor was having another
case of similar nature, registered in the year 2015. In that case
also, he adopted the very same modus operandi to get
acquaintance with a minor child and thereafter used her for his
sexual lust. That case is also pending for trial before the court
concerned. Since the investigating agency requires more time to
collect the entire evidence for the prosecution, I find that granting

[case 37]
AGAINST THE ORDER IN CRMC 856/2021 OF SPECIAL COURT UNDER POCSO
CRIME NO. 114 OF 2021 OF CHERUPUZHA POLICE STATION
PETITIONER/ACCUSED:
BY ADV P. P. RAMACHANDRAN
RESPONDENT/COMPLAINANT:
STATE OF KERALA
(S. H. O. CHERUPUZHA POLICE STATION) REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC
PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM - 682 031.
BY ADV SHRI. P. NARAYANAN, ADDL. PUBLIC PROSECUTOR
THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON
11. 08. 2021, THE COURT ON 13. 08. 2021 PASSED THE FOLLOWING:
DATED THIS THE 13TH DAY OF AUGUST, 2021
This application for regular bail has been filed by the
petitioner/the accused in Crime No. 114 of 2021 of Cherupuzha
Police Station registered for the offences punishable under Section
306 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 4 read with Section 3(a), 12
read with 11(iv) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,
Sections 3(1), (W), 3(2)(V) of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe
Prevention of Atrocities Act and Section 67B of Information
Technology Act.
The petitioner has been in custody since 16. 06. 2021.
The prosecution case is that a minor girl aged 17
years who belongs to Scheduled Caste community, the daughter of
the informant's uncle, was found dead on 09. 06. 2021. She was
found hanging in her bedroom in the wee hours of 09. 06. 2021.
Though she was rushed to the hospital by the relatives including
the informant, she was declared dead. A crime was registered
under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thereafter
postmortem examination was conducted on the body of the
deceased in the Medical College, Pariyaram where it was found by
the doctor who conducted the autopsy that she was subjected to
penetrative sexual assault. Then case was registered under
Sections 376(2) of IPC and Section 3(a) read with Section 4 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Thereafter,
investigation has started and thus the sections have been altered
as aforementioned.
According to the learned appearing for the petitioner,
he has been falsely implicated in the case at the instance of some
of his friends who are on inimical terms with him. Absolutely he
has no role in the alleged incident and he never abetted the girl to
commit suicide at any point of time as alleged by the prosecution.
He has also not committed any kind of sexual abuse or harassment
as alleged, still he is undergoing unnecessary incarceration and
hence, this application.
Per contra, the learned Additional Director General of
Prosecution vehemently opposed the application. It was pointed
out that this petitioner came in contact with the deceased through
Facebook. Thereafter he managed to develop intimacy with the
minor girl by making frequent calls and also sending messages.
When the intimacy had developed, he used to take the victim girl to
various places and started to abuse her sexually. When the minor
girl was residing along with her grandmother he had even
approached her and stayed at their house by making them to
believe that he would marry her when she attains the age of
majority. In fact, the mobile phone which was found in the
possession of the minor child was presented by this petitioner so as
to trap her in the relationship, so as to satisfy his lust. He was
working as a bus conductor and he exploited the innocence of this
girl by making frequent calls and messages and she had even
forwarded her nude photographs to him as instigated by him, and
he had sex with this minor girl quite frequently. But later when she
made the request to marry her, he had deviated from his promise
and had tried to keep away from her and in fact his reluctance or
refusal to marry her, had led her to commit suicide and thus he
abetted her to commit suicide on 09. 06. 2021, is the argument
advanced by the learned ADGP.
Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner as well
the learned ADGP. Perused the CD file.
As mentioned earlier, the records would reveal that the
case was actually registered under Section 174 of the Cr. P. C. ,
on 09. 06. 2021. Later, on receipt of the postmortem report, the
police has investigated the case and then it was revealed that her
death was because of the involvement of some perpetrator and
when the call details of her mobile phone was collected by the
investigating agency, it unfolded the mysterious relationship of this
petitioner with the deceased. Thereafter further investigation by
recording the statements of the relatives, friends and others who
are closely connected with the deceased was conducted and then
only it was realized that this petitioner was taking advantage of his
intimacy with her and he had abused her sexually though she was a
minor girl. The CD file further reveals that he used to visit her
quite often and sent obscene messages to her and prompted her to
sent her nude photographs after giving a false promise that he
would marry her in near future. So, she was having close
acquaintance with him and it was exploited by him for having
sexual relationship with her. She was residing along with her
grandmother and he had visited her at that house and even stayed
with her under that false promise of marriage. The last visit of this
petitioner to her residence was on 13. 02. 2021. As the petitioner
had indulged in instigating her to commit suicide, the investigating
agency has to probe into the details of the mysterious death, to
collect more materials for the prosecution to prove the case.
It is also pointed out by the learned ADGP that this
petitioner, who was working as a bus conductor was having another
case of similar nature, registered in the year 2015. In that case
also, he adopted the very same modus operandi to get
acquaintance with a minor child and thereafter used her for his
sexual lust. That case is also pending for trial before the court
concerned. Since the investigating agency requires more time to
collect the entire evidence for the prosecution, I find that granting

[case 38]
Kerala High Court Murali vs State Of Kerala on 12 October, 2018 Author: V Raja Vijayaraghavan Bench: V Raja Vijayaraghavan IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V FRIDAY, THE 12TH DAY OF OCTOBER 2018 / 20TH ASWINA, 1940 Bail Appl. .No. 6856 of 2018 (CRIME NO. 487/2018 OF PUTHENVELIKKARA POLICE STATION, ERNAKULAM DISTRICT. ) PETITIONER/ACCUSED NO. 1: MURALI, AGED 44 YEARS, S/O RAMACHANDRAN, MEMNA HOUSE(THEVARKKAD), CHERUKADAPPURAM, PUTHENVELIKKARA. BY ADVS. SRI. S. RAJEEV ANAND K SRI. D. FEROZE K. K. DHEERENDRAKRISHNAN SRI. V. VINAY RESPONDENT/STATE: STATE OF KERALA, REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM 682031(CRIME NO. 487/2018 OF PUTHENVELIKKARA POLICE STATION, ERNAKULAM DISTRICT BY SR. PUBLIC PROSECUTOR SRI. AMJAD ALI THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 12. 10. 2018, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: ORDER This application is filed under Section 439 of the Cr. P. C. 2. The applicant herein is the 1 st accused in Crime No. 487 of 2018 registered at the Puthenvelikkara Police Station under Sections 376(2)(f)(l) r/w. Section 34 of the IPC, Section 3, 4, 5(n) and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. 3. The survivor in the instant case is the daughter of Sri. Madhu M. R. , the elder brother of the applicant, who died on 26. 11. 2016 after a prolonged bout of illness. Sri. Madhu M. R. had divorced his wife in the year 2012 and thereafter, the children were allegedly residing with their father. After the death of Sri. Madhu M. R. , a petition was filed before the Judicial Magistrate, Paravur by the survivor and her mother seeking a residence order under Section 12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005. The respondents in the said petition are the applicant and his aged mother. In the said petition, which was filed in the year 2017, among other allegations, it was stated that the child and her brother were residing with their father till his death. While her father was not at home, the applicant and his friends used to behave in a salacious manner and used to look at the child with lustful eyes. Though she used to complain to her grandmother, instead of reprimanding the 1st accused, the victim used to be physically abused. On these allegations, a prayer was made to permit her mother to reside in the parental home of the father of the victim. On receipt of the said application, the learned Magistrate noticed that the petition contained allegations of sexual abuse on a minor child and decided to report the offence as envisaged under Section 19 of the POCSO Act. On receipt of the said memorandum dated 4. 9. 2018, a Crime was registered as aforesaid. The statement of the child was recorded by the Sub Inspector of Police, Women Cell. In her statement, which was recorded on 6. 9. 2018, she levelled very serious allegations against the applicant. She stated that on October, 2016 while she was not at home, the applicant came and sat next to her and touched her body with sexual intent. She spurned his advances and went to her room. He is alleged to have entered her bedroom and subjected her to penetrative sexual intercourse. After committing the act, he left the room. According to the child, though she narrated all these aspects to her father, he did not believe her words. The applicant herein was arrested on 19. 9. 2018 and he remains in custody. 4. The learned counsel appearing for the applicant submitted that this is a classic case of abuse of provisions of the Act. In the petition filed seeking relief under the Domestic Violence Act, all that the child had stated was that the applicant used to behave in an inappropriate manner. She did not even have a case that the applicant touched her body let alone commit sexual intercourse. The learned Magistrate, thereafter considered the application and refused the prayer for a residence order. According to the learned counsel, the father of the child was extremely sick and neither the mother nor the children used to visit him. If there was any truth in the allegations, nothing prevented the mother or the child to level such allegations in the application filed before the learned Magistrate. The learned counsel has referred to Annexure-I petition filed under the Domestic Violence Act and Annexure-II order passed by the learned Magistrate. 5. Heard the learned Public Prosecutor and I have gone through the case diary. 6. It is borne out from Annexure-II order that the father of the victim had divorced the mother of the child in the year 2012. Annexure-I petition seeking a residence order is filed by the victim and her mother before the learned Magistrate. Nowhere in Annexure-I has it been mentioned that the child was raped by the applicant. The learned Magistrate had refused a residence order by order dated 7. 3. 2018. It is much later, on 6. 9. 2018, that an embellished version of the incident has been furnished by the child. In the 164 statement of the child recorded by the learned Magistrate, the child has reiterated the allegations. However, there are enough materials in the case diary which casts serious doubts as regards the veracity of the serious allegations levelled by the child against her uncle. The medical examination report also does not show that there is history of vaginal penetration. Furthermore, the applicant herein has been in custody from 19. 9. 2018 and in the facts and circumstances, I do not think that his further incarceration in custody is warranted. In the result, this application will stand allowed. The applicant shall be released on bail on his executing a bond for Rs. 1, 00, 000/- (Rupees One lakh only) with two solvent sureties each for the like sum to the satisfaction of the court having jurisdiction. The above order shall be subject to the following conditions: 1). The applicant shall appear before the Investigating Officer on every Saturdays between 10 a. m. and 1 p. m. , for a period of 3 months from today or till the final report is filed, whichever is earlier. 2). He shall not intimidate or attempt to influence the witnesses; nor shall he tamper with the evidence. He shall not make any attempt to contact the victim or her family members. 3). He shall not commit any offence while on bail. 4). He shall not leave India without the permission of the Court and if having passport, shall deposit the same before the Trial Court within a week; If release of the passport is required at a later period, the applicant shall be at liberty to move appropriate application before the Court having jurisdiction. In case of violation of any of the above conditions, the jurisdictional Court shall be empowered to consider the application for cancellation, if any, and pass appropriate orders in accordance with the law. SD/- RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V. , JUDGE krj //TRUE COPY// P. A. TO JUDGE

[case 39]
THIS CRL. P FILED U/S. 439 CR. P. C PRAYING TO ENLARGE THE PETITIONER ON BAIL IN CR. NO. 333/2019 (SPL. C. C. NO. 81/2020) REGISTERED BY DEVARAJEEVANAHALLI POLICE STATION, BENGALURU FOR THE OFFENCE PUNISHABLE UNDER SECTIONS 376 AND 506 OF IPC AND SECTIONS 5(2)(N) AND 6 OF POCSO ACT.
THIS CRL. P COMING ON FOR ORDERS, THROUGH VIDEO CONFERENCE, THIS DAY, THE COURT MADE THE FOLLOWING:
Petitioner is the step-father of the victim aged about 13 years. FIR came to be registered against the petitioner based on the information lodged by Smt. Gunasheela, attached to Child Line, Bengaluru. In the complaint, it was alleged that the victim was studying in VII Standard at Nehru Centenary English School, Kanakanagar, Bengaluru. The parents of the victim were separated for the past five years and her mother got remarried to the petitioner/accused and was residing at Kanakanagar. The mother of the victim was an alcoholic and after she went to sleep, the petitioner/accused used to sexually abuse the victim for the past two years and threatened her not to disclose the same to anyone. In the complaint, it was stated that the victim narrated her plight to her friends and as per their advice, she called the Child Helpline and reported the matter to the complainant.
2. Sri. Tomy Sebastian, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner contends that the victim in her statement given to the Magistrate under section 164 of Cr. P. C. , has unequivocally stated that she was in love with a boy by name Sameer. Her father namely the petitioner/accused saw them and as she needed freedom, by mistake, her father was implicated. Learned Magistrate failed to consider this statement and has rejected the application filed by the petitioner solely on the ground that the offences alleged against the petitioner are severe and are punishable upto life imprisonment.
3. Learned HCGP appearing for respondent however opposed the petition contending that the petitioner is involved in a serious offence under the provisions of POCSO Act and therefore he is not entitled for grant of bail.
4. I have considered the submissions and have perused the records.
5. The offences charged against the petitioner are punishable under sections 5(n) and 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and under sections 376 and 506 of IPC. In the statement given by the victim under section 161 of Cr. P. C. , the victim has categorically implicated the petitioner herein and has stated that after her mother used to go to sleep, after getting heavily drunk, the petitioner used to sexually abuse her since the past two years. She has also narrated that she herself informed the matter to the Child Helpline through the mobile phone of one Smt. Priya, mother of her classmate. The complainant has also narrated that on getting the information over the phone, she visited the school where the victim was studying and on ascertaining that she was a victim of sexual offence, lodged the report before the D. J. Halli Police, whereafter the victim was subjected to medical examination and the accused was also arrested and subjected to medical examination.
6. The medical report produced along with the charge sheet indicates that as on the date of the examination of the victim, she was aged about 13 years. She had reached menarche. Her hymen was not intact. All these facts prima facie go to show that she was a victim of sexual assault. Unfortunately, in her statement given before the learned Magistrate under section 164 of Cr. P. C. , the victim stated thus:
"I have come to the court with my mother. I will give statement in front of my mother. I am aware of Kannada language very little and I can speak English. It is my mistake, first of all I did love with one boy Sameer. My father saw. I needed freedom to meet that boy. It all my mistake. I saw in T. V. about Hyderabad i. e. , about Priyanka. I am feeling guilty. Its all of my mistake please leave my father. My father nothing he did I wanted freedom to meet them. Hence, I said to the police like that. That's all. "
Though this statement is contrary to the previous statements made by the victim before the Police and the complainant, yet, solely on that ground, the petitioner cannot be enlarged on bail as he is otherwise not entitled to bail having regard to the inter se relationship and the manner in which the victim is alleged to have been subjected to sexual offence. Though in her statement recorded under section 164 of Cr. P. C. , she has stated that she was in love with Sameer, there is no material on record to show that she was sexually abused by him. No doubt, learned Magistrate has not adverted to the statement of the victim recorded under section 164 of Cr. P. C. , but there being other evidence on record, it is not proper for this Court to jump to the conclusion that the statement made by the victim under section 164 of Cr. P. C. is truthful and free of any force or coercion. The circumstances that drove the victim to make contradictory statements before the Police as well as before the Magistrate needs to be enquired into. Likewise, the facts and circumstances which made the victim to implicate her father also are required to be determined, which could be done only in a free atmosphere free of lurking threat, coercion or influence by the petitioner or any other close relatives of the victim.
7. Undeniably, the victim has been residing in the house of the petitioner/accused along with her mother. Under the said circumstances, if the petitioner is enlarged on bail at this juncture, possibility of the petitioner/accused threatening or influencing or prevailing upon the victim cannot be ruled out, which may prejudice the case of the prosecution and the possibility of ascertaining the actual truth will also be affected. Hence, I am of the view that until the victim is examined by the Trial Court, the petitioner cannot be admitted to bail.
For the above reasons, the petition is rejected. However, having regard to the facts and circumstances narrated above, the Trial Court is directed to examine the victim as expeditiously as possible, preferably through Video Conference and in the event the victim stands by the statement made by her under section 164 Cr. P. C. , the Trial court shall enlarge the petitioner on bail, on such terms and conditions as found expedient.

[case 40]
Jibitha vs Diyol on 28 January, 2020. The petitioner is the respondent in I. A. No. 1162/2019 in GOP No. 467/2019, on the file of Family Court, Trissur. The respondent in this original petition had filed the above application seeking interim custody of his minor son Dhanvin and permission to interact with his younger son Sidharth during holidays and vacation periods. In the application filed before the Family Court, the respondent had, inter alia, pleaded that, after the birth of the younger child, the petitioner refused to return to the matrimonial home. Subsequently, there was a mediation, and a rapprochement was effected. Immediately after conceiving the younger child, the petitioner went to her parental home and thereafter, has refused to resume co-habitation. The respondent is anxious to look after the welfare of the children, but the petitioner is not permitting the same. Therefore, interim custody of the older child may be given to him, and he be permitted to interact with the younger child. The application was opposed by the petitioner, who filed a written objection, inter alia, contending that the respondent is an alcoholic. Subsequent to the separation between them, there was a settlement before the Police, and the older child was agreed to be given on every Friday. However, the respondent's close friend Jayesh abused the child, and on a complaint by the petitioner, Crime No. 93/2019 was registered by the Guruvayoor Police Station, for offences punishable under POCSO Act and under Section 377 of IPC against Jayesh. Hence custody of the child shall not be given to the petitioner. The petitioner hence prays that the application may be dismissed. The Family Court after considering the application and the counter filed, and also after interacting with the child, who did not raise any complaint against the father, held that by merely raising allegations of sexual assault against the respondent's friend, the respondent cannot be restricted from having interim custody and visitation rights of his children. Accordingly, the Family Court allowed I. A. No. 1162/2019 by granting interim custody of the older child to the respondent from 11 a. m. of every 2nd Saturday till 3 p. m. on the following Sunday, with visitation right from 11 am to 1 pm on every 4th Sunday. Likewise, the respondent was permitted to interact with the younger child from 10 am to 11 am on every 2nd Saturday and from 11 am to 1 pm on every 4th Sunday. It is challenging the above order this original petition is filed under Article 227 of the Constitution of India, contending that the impugned order passed by the Family Court is erroneous and improper and is liable to be set aside. This Court in Suhara and Others v. Muhammed Jaleel [2019 (2) KLT 960] has held that, even if one of the parents is accused of an allegation in a crime under the POCSO Act, is no assurance to a Family court that the allegation is true. The Court has to consider the paramount welfare and interest of the child while granting custody of the child to such parent, and further that the registration of the crime is not a bar in granting the parent access and visitation right of the child. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Anjali Kapoor vs. Rajiv Baijal [(2009) 7 SCC 322] has categorically declared the law that in a battle for custody of the child, Court should see what would best serve the welfare and interest of the child, which is the soul and predominant criteria and not the legal rights of the warring parents. In a most recent decision by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Yashita Sahu vs State of Rajasthan and others [2020 SCC OnLine (SC) 50] rendered on 20. 1. 2020, has declared as follows: 'The child is the victim in custody battles. In this fight of egos and increasing acrimonious battles and litigations between two spouses, our experience shows that more often than not, the parents who otherwise love their child, present a picture as if the other spouse is a villain and he or she alone is entitled to the custody of the child. The court must therefore be very vary of what is said by each of the spouses. A child, especially a child of tender years requires the love, affection, company, protection of both parents. This is not only the requirement of the child but is his/her basic human right. Just because the parents are at war with each other, does not mean that the child should be denied the care, affection, love or protection of any one of the two parents. A child is not an inanimate object which can be tossed from one parent to the other. Every separation, every re-union may have a traumatic and psychosomatic impact on the child. Therefore, it is to be ensured that the court weighs each and every circumstance very carefully before deciding how and in what manner the custody of the child should be shared between both the parents. Even if the custody is given to one parent the other parent must have sufficient visitation rights to ensure that the child keeps in touch with the other parent and does not lose social, physical and psychological contact with any one of the two parents. It is only in extreme circumstances that one parent should be denied contact with the child. Reasons must be assigned if one parent is to be denied any visitation rights or contact with the child. Courts dealing with the custody matters must while deciding issues of custody clearly define the nature, manner and specifics of the visitation rights. ' Undisputedly, in the present case the allegation is that, the respondent's friend and neighbour attempted to abuse the child and he is accused in POCSO case, therefore, the child shall not be given to the respondent. In view of the categoric declaration of law in the authoritative precedents cited supra, we are unable to accept the contentions that the handing over of the custody of the older child to the respondent would be detrimental to the paramount welfare and best interest of the older child, and that the respondent should be denied visitation rights of the younger child. The learned Judge of the Family Court had interacted with the older child and found that he has no complaint to go with his father and that there is no harm if the older child is being sent with the father on every 2nd Saturday till the following Sunday. Similarly, the father has been given visitation right to see the younger child also on every 2nd Saturday and 4th Sunday. The granting of interim custody and visitation rights would only benefit their paramount welfare and best interest. It is the welfare of the children that is to be looked into and not the rights and defences of the quarrelling parents. We do not find any ground warranting interference with the impugned order invoking the supervisory jurisdiction of this Court under Article 227 of the Constitution of India. The original petition is without merit. Accordingly, the Original Petition is dismissed.

[case 41]
Chattisgarh High Court Ashik Nishad vs State Of Chhattisgarh on 25 March, 2025 1 2025: CGHC: 14339 NAFR HIGH COURT OF CHHATTISGARH AT BILASPUR MCRC No. 1463 of 2025 1 - Guman Nishad S/o Jagmohan Nishad Aged About 21 Years R/o Ward No. 20, Village- Bemcha District- Mahasamund, Chhattisgarh. --- Applicant(s) versus 1 - State Of Chhattisgarh Through The P. S. - Mahasamund, District-Mahasamund, Chhattisgarh. --- Respondent(s) MCRC No. 1464 of 2025 1 - Ashik Nishad S/o Santosh Nishad Aged About 20 Years R/o Ward No. 20, Village - Bemcha District - Mahasamund (Chhattisgarh). --- Applicant(s) versus 1 - State Of Chhattisgarh Through The P. S. - Mahasamund, District - Mahasamund (Chhattisgarh). --- Respondent(s) MCRC No. 1467 of 2025 1 - Ganesh Nishad S/o Tulsi Ram Nishad Aged About 22 Years R/o Ward No. 11, Village - Bemcha District - Mahasamund (Chhattisgarh). .. . Applicant(s) versus 1 - State Of Chhattisgarh Through The P. S. - Mahasamund, District - Mahasamund (Chhattisgarh). .. . Respondent(s) For Applicants(s): Shri Akshay Sail, Advocate For Respondent/State: Ms. Pragya Shrivastava, Dy. GA (Hon'ble Shri Justice Arvind Kumar Verma) Order on Board 25/03/2025 As the above three M. Cr. Cs. are arising out of the same Crime Number, they are being disposed of by this common order. 2. The applicants have filed this bail application under Section 483 of the Bhartiya Nagrrik Suraksha Sanhita for grant of regular bail as they are in custody in connection with Crime No. 256/2024 registered at police station Mahasamund, District Mahasamund (CG) for the offence punishable under Sections 376(2)(n), 376(3), 506 Part-II/34 of IPC, Section 6 of the POCSO and Section 67 of the IT Act. 3. Prosecution case in brief is that report was lodged against the applicants on 19. 05. 2024 alleging that the applicants took the prosecutrix to the doctor on 17. 05. 2024 as she was complaining of stomach ache and on examination, she was found pregnant. Thereafter on 18. 05. 2024, she was admitted at Aditya Hospital, Mahasamund for treatment. It is the case of prosecution that the applicant in M. Cr. C. No. 1463/2025 were having love affair and on 21. 01. 2024 they developed physical relations and the co-accused persons helped the applicant in the said offence. Based on the said report two more Crime Nos. were registered against two different persons namely Rajendra Sahu and Tulsi Sahu (Cr. Nos. 257/2024 and 258/2024) respectively. On the basis of the said report, the police registered the offence against the accused persons and they were arrested. 4. Counsel for the applicants submits that the applicants have been falsely implicated in the case. He further contended that the FIR was lodged with a delay of about 5 months. It is contended that the incident took place on 19. 01. 2024 and 21. 01. 2024 whereas the FIR was lodged on 19. 05. 2024. It is contended that two more FIRs have been registered against two others of the same offence of sexual assault and therefore the testimony of the prosecutrix not credible and creates doubt as she has narrated different stories in her statements. It is submitted that the accused Rajendra Sahu in Crime No. 257/2024 has been granted bail by this Court in M. Cr. C. No. 6869/2024 vide order dated 08. 01. 2025, therefore the present applicants may also be granted similar benefit. 5. It is contended on behalf of the applicants namely, Ashik Nishad and Ganesh Nishad in M. Cr. C. Nos. 1464/2025 and 1467/2025 receptively that they have only assisted the applicant Guman Nishad in the commission of rape. Lastly, it is submitted that the charge sheet has been filed, they are in jail since 20. 05. 2024 and the trial is likely to take some time, they are ready and willing to comply with any of the conditions which may be imposed upon them and thus, it is submitted that the application be allowed and the applicants be released on bail. 6. Learned counsel for the respondent/State, on the other hand, has opposed the bail applications and submits that applicant Ashik Nishad in M. Cr. C. No1464/2025 had transmitted in the electronic form and made it viral. 7. Heard counsel for the parties and perused the record. 8. From perusal of the prosecution case, the accused Guman Nishad had developed physical relation with the victim, she became pregnant and thereafter when her parents came to know about the incident, the report was lodged. However, after the victim gave birth to a child and DNA test was done and as per the report, applicant was not the biological father of the child. 9. Here in the present case, though the applicant had denied to have made any physical relation with the prosecutrix but considering the fact that it was not the first occasion when the complaint was made by the prosecutrix for committing rape but in the same vein she made similar type of allegations against other persons also. Thus, taking into consideration the fact that they are in jail since 20. 05. 2024, charge sheet has been filed and that the final disposal of the trial is likely to take sufficiently long time, the present applications deserves to be allowed. Accordingly, their bail applications are allowed. 10. It is directed that in the event of applicants' executing a personal bond for a sum of Rs. 10, 000/- each with one surety to the satisfaction of the concerned trial court, they shall be released on bail on the following conditions: I) they shall file an undertaking to the effect that he/she shall not seek any adjournment on the dates fixed for evidence when the witnesses are present in the Court. IN case of default of this condition, it shall be open for the trial court to treat it as abuse of liberty of bail and pass orders in accordance with law. ii) they shall remain present before the trial court on each date fixed, either personally or through his/her counsel. In case of his absence without sufficient cause, the trial court may proceed against him/her under Section 269 of BNS, 2023. iii) In case, the applicants misuse the liberty of bail during trial and in order to secure his/her presence, proclamation under Section 84 of the BNSS, 2023 is issued and the applicants failed to appear before the court on the date fixed in such proclamation, then, the trial court shall initiate proceedings against him/her. In accordance with law under Section 209 of BNS, 2023. iv) The applicants shall remain present, in person, before the trial court on the dates fixed for (i) opening of the case (ii) framing of charge and (iii) recording of statement under Section 351 of BNSS, 2023. If in the opinion of the trial court absence of the applicants are deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the trial court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against him/her in accordance with law. Sd/- (Arvind Kumar Verma) Digitally signed by SUGUNA DUBEY Date: 2025. 03. 27 11: 11: 37 +0530

[case 42]
Ganesh Nishad vs State Of Chhattisgarh on 25 March, 2025. HIGH COURT OF CHHATTISGARH AT BILASPUR. MCRC No. 1463 of 2025. 1 - Guman Nishad S/o Jagmohan Nishad Aged About 21 Years R/o Ward No. 20, Village- Bemcha District- Mahasamund, Chhattisgarh. --- Applicant(s) versus 1 - State Of Chhattisgarh Through The P. S. - Mahasamund, District- Mahasamund, Chhattisgarh. --- Respondent(s) MCRC No. 1464 of 2025. 1 - Ashik Nishad S/o Santosh Nishad Aged About 20 Years R/o Ward No. 20, Village - Bemcha District - Mahasamund (Chhattisgarh). --- Applicant(s) versus 1 - State Of Chhattisgarh Through The P. S. - Mahasamund, District - Mahasamund (Chhattisgarh). --- Respondent(s) MCRC No. 1467 of 2025. 1 - Ganesh Nishad S/o Tulsi Ram Nishad Aged About 22 Years R/o Ward No. 11, Village - Bemcha District - Mahasamund (Chhattisgarh). .. . Applicant(s) versus 1 - State Of Chhattisgarh Through The P. S. - Mahasamund, District - Mahasamund (Chhattisgarh). .. . Respondent(s) For Applicants(s): Shri Akshay Sail, Advocate For Respondent/State: Ms. Pragya Shrivastava, Dy. GA (Hon'ble Shri Justice Arvind Kumar Verma) Order on Board 25/03/2025 As the above three M. Cr. Cs. are arising out of the same Crime Number, they are being disposed of by this common order. The applicants have filed this bail application under Section 483 of the Bhartiya Nagrrik Suraksha Sanhita for grant of regular bail as they are in custody in connection with Crime No. 256/2024 registered at police station Mahasamund, District Mahasamund (CG) for the offence punishable under Sections 376(2)(n), 376(3), 506 Part-II/34 of IPC, Section 6 of the POCSO and Section 67 of the IT Act. Prosecution case in brief is that report was lodged against the applicants on 19. 05. 2024 alleging that the applicants took the prosecutrix to the doctor on 17. 05. 2024 as she was complaining of stomach ache and on examination, she was found pregnant. Thereafter on 18. 05. 2024, she was admitted at Aditya Hospital, Mahasamund for treatment. It is the case of prosecution that the applicant in M. Cr. C. No. 1463/2025 were having love affair and on 21. 01. 2024 they developed physical relations and the co-accused persons helped the applicant in the said offence. Based on the said report two more Crime Nos. were registered against two different persons namely Rajendra Sahu and Tulsi Sahu (Cr. Nos. 257/2024 and 258/2024) respectively. On the basis of the said report, the police registered the offence against the accused persons and they were arrested. Counsel for the applicants submits that the applicants have been falsely implicated in the case. He further contended that the FIR was lodged with a delay of about 5 months. It is contended that the incident took place on 19. 01. 2024 and 21. 01. 2024 whereas the FIR was lodged on 19. 05. 2024. It is contended that two more FIRs have been registered against two others of the same offence of sexual assault and therefore the testimony of the prosecutrix not credible and creates doubt as she has narrated different stories in her statements. It is submitted that the accused Rajendra Sahu in Crime No. 257/2024 has been granted bail by this Court in M. Cr. C. No. 6869/2024 vide order dated 08. 01. 2025, therefore the present applicants may also be granted similar benefit. It is contended on behalf of the applicants namely, Ashik Nishad and Ganesh Nishad in M. Cr. C. Nos. 1464/2025 and 1467/2025 receptively that they have only assisted the applicant Guman Nishad in the commission of rape. Lastly, it is submitted that the charge sheet has been filed, they are in jail since 20. 05. 2024 and the trial is likely to take some time, they are ready and willing to comply with any of the conditions which may be imposed upon them and thus, it is submitted that the application be allowed and the applicants be released on bail. Learned counsel for the respondent/State, on the other hand, has opposed the bail applications and submits that applicant Ashik Nishad in M. Cr. C. No1464/2025 had transmitted in the electronic form and made it viral. Heard counsel for the parties and perused the record. From perusal of the prosecution case, the accused Guman Nishad had developed physical relation with the victim, she became pregnant and thereafter when her parents came to know about the incident, the report was lodged. However, after the victim gave birth to a child and DNA test was done and as per the report, applicant was not the biological father of the child. Here in the present case, though the applicant had denied to have made any physical relation with the prosecutrix but considering the fact that it was not the first occasion when the complaint was made by the prosecutrix against the applicant for committing rape but in the same vein she made similar type of allegations against other persons also. Thus, taking into consideration the fact that they are in jail since 20. 05. 2024, charge sheet has been filed and that the final disposal of the trial is likely to take sufficiently long time, the present applications deserves to be allowed. Accordingly, their bail applications are allowed. It is directed that in the event of applicants' executing a personal bond for a sum of Rs. 10, 000/- each with one surety to the satisfaction of the concerned trial court, they shall be released on bail on the following conditions: I) they shall file an undertaking to the effect that he/she shall not seek any adjournment on the dates fixed for evidence when the witnesses are present in the Court. IN case of default of this condition, it shall be open for the trial court to treat it as abuse of liberty of bail and pass orders in accordance with law. ii) they shall remain present before the trial court on each date fixed, either personally or through his/her counsel. In case of his absence without sufficient cause, the trial court may proceed against him/her under Section 269 of BNS, 2023. iii) In case, the applicants misuse the liberty of bail during trial and in order to secure his/her presence, proclamation under Section 84 of the BNSS, 2023 is issued and the applicants failed to appear before the court on the date fixed in such proclamation, then, the trial court shall initiate proceedings against him/her. in accordance with law under Section 209 of BNS, 2023. iv) The applicants shall remain present, in person, before the trial court on the dates fixed for (I) opening of the case (ii) framing of charge and (iii) recording of statement under Section 351 of BNSS, 2023. If in the opinion of the trial court absence of the applicants are deliberate or without sufficient cause, t hen it shall be open for the trial court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against him/her in accordance with law.

[case 43]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Nikhil Sarathe vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 28 August, 2018 1 M. Cr. C. No. 16856 of 2017 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH PRINCIPAL SEAT AT JABALPUR Single Bench: Hon'ble Shri Rajeev Kumar Dubey, J. Misc. Criminal Case No. 16856/2017 Nikhil Sarathe vs. State of M. P. and Others -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Shri Alok Bagrecha and Shri Pushpendra Dubey, learned counsel for the applicant. Shri Manish Awasthi, Govt. Advocate for the respondent/State. Shri Vivek Agrawal, learned counsel for the respondent no. 2/prosecutrix. None for the respondent No. 3/complainant though served. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ORDER Reserved on: 21/08/2018 Delivered on: /08/2018 This petition has been filed under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. seeking quashing of the F. I. R. of crime No. 293/2016 registered at PS Kotwali Bhopal for the offence punishable under Sections 363, 376, 120-B, 212 of IPC and Section 3, 4 of POCSO Act and consequential proceedings thereto. Brief facts of the case are that on 29/12/2016, the father of the prosecutrix lodged a report at P. S. Kotwali Bhopal averring that his daughter (prosecutrix) age about 17 years was not at home since six 'o'clock in the morning and she was not found even after enough search. Someone had abducted her. On that police registered crime No. 293/16 for the offence punishable under section 363 of I. P. C. and investigated the matter and during investigation on 23/01/17 police rescued the prosecutrix from the custody of applicant and recorded the statement of the prosecutrix. In her statement prosecutrix stated that she had known applicant Nikhil for the last five years and there was a love affair between them. On 29th December 2016, Nikhil had asked him to escape from the house in order to marry with him. On this, around 5-6 o'clock in the morning without informing her family members she went to the Hawa Mahal, where she met Nikhil who took her to Arya Samaj Mandir situated at Nehru Nagar, where both of them got married, then they went to Shirdi where they stayed for four or five days. Thereafter they came back to Bhopal and stayed there for 5-6 days at Nikhil's friend's house situated at Neelbad area in Bhopal. During that period Nikhil also made physical relationship with her, after which Nikhil's friend Shubham (co-accused) took them to Jabalpur, where they stayed in the house of a person, who happened to be an acquaintance of Shubham, as a guest for 6-7 days. There too applicant Nikhil Had sex with her four to five times. On that police also added offences under section 368, 376, 120-B, 212 of IPC and Section 3, 4, 5, 6, 11 (i) and 12 of POCSO Act and after investigation of the crime police filed charge-sheet against the applicant. On that charge-sheet S. T. No. 28/18 was registered. Applicant is facing trial in that case before 7 th A. S. J. Bhopal and filed this petition for quashing the F. I. R. of the crime No. 293/16 registered at P. S. Kotwali Bhopal and the proceedings of S. T. No. 28/18. Learned counsel for the applicant submitted that the prosecutrix was major at the time of incident and went with the applicant on her own will. In the birth certificate of the prosecutrix, her date of birth is mentioned as 30/11/1998. According to that certificate, prosecutrix was major at the time of incident. The prosecutrix in her statement recorded by the JMFC under Section 164 of Cr. P. C. also deposed that she went with the applicant at her own will and she had married with applicant and is living with him. Since prosecutrix was major at the time of incident and went with applicant own her on will, no offences under Section 363, 376, 120-B, 212 of IPC and Section 3, 4 of POCSO Act is made out against the applicant. He further submitted that if it is assumed that the age of the prosecutrix was 17 years two months at the time of incident as appears on the basis of school entry register produced by the prosecution along with the charge sheet even then no offence is made out against the applicant from the charge-sheet because prosecutrix went with the applicant on her own will. In this regard, he also placed reliance on Delhi High Court judgment passed in Laxmi Devi & Anr. ; Maha Dev & Devender @ Babli v. State reported in (2012) DLT 619 and Apex Court judgment passed in Satish Mehra Vs. State reported in 2013 CrLJ 411, Rajeev Thaper Vs. Madan Lal reported in (2013) 3 SCC 330 and Independent thought Vs. Union of India reported in (2017) 10 SCC 800, and State of Karnataka Vs. L. Muniswamy and others reported in 1977 CRLJ 1125. Learned counsel for the prosecutrix also submitted that prosecutrix was major at the time of incident and went with the applicant on her own will and at present she is living with the applicant and also married with the him, so offence registered against the applicant should be quashed. Learned counsel for the State opposed the prayer and submitted that according to school entry register the date of birth of the prosecutrix is 23/10/1999 and on that basis the age of the prosecutrix was below 18 years at the time of incident i. e. 29/12/16 and she was minor at the time of incident. Applicant abducted the prosecutrix and made sexual relations with her, so offence under Section 368, 376 of IPC and Section 3/ 4 and 12 of POCSO is clearly made out against the applicant and prays for rejection of petition. This Court has gone through the record and arguments put forth by the learned counsel for both the parties. In the entry of school register, the date of prosecutrix is mentioned 23/10/1999 and on that basis the age of the prosecutrix appears to be below 18 years at the time of incident i. e. 29/12/16 and she was minor at the time of incident. Applicant took the prosecutrix and made sexual relations with her. So from the charge sheet offence under section 3/4 of the POCSO Act is prima facie made out against the applicant. So FIR and the proceedings of S. T. No. 28/18 can not be quashed at this stage. Although applicant produced Birth certificate of the prosecutrix in which the date of birth of prosecutrix is mentioned as 30/11/1998 but authenticity of that certificate has to be tested and it requires evidence to decide. Applicant is free to raise this issue before trial court at the appropriate stage and produce the evidence in support of his defence which will consider by the trial court on merits. Accordingly, petition is disposed of. (Rajeev Kumar Dubey) Judge vs Digitally signed by VARSHA SINGH Date: 2018. 08. 29 17: 55: 33 +05'30'

[case 44]
1. The appellant Raju Kumar Singh has challenged the legality and correctness of a judgment dated 19. 08. 2015 of learned Additional Sessions Judge in Sessions Case No. 72/14 arising out of FIR No. 166/14 registered at Police Station Shalimar Bagh by which he was held guilty for committing offence punishable under Section 342 IPC and Sections 10 and 12 of POCSO Act. By an order dated 25. 08. 2015, he was sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for five years with fine `5, 000/- under Section 10 of POCSO Act; Rigorous Imprisonment for two months with fine `500/- under Section 342 IPC; and, Rigorous Imprisonment for one year with fine `1, 000/- under Section 12 of POCSO AC. The sentences were to operate concurrently.
2. The incident whereby the child was sexually abused was reported to the police via Daily Diary (DD) No. 87B (Ex. PW-3/A) on 21. 02. 2014 at around 10. 50 p. m. The Investigating Officer after recording the statement of victim's mother (Ex. PW-4/A) lodged First Information Report. The prosecutrix was medically examined; she recorded her 164 Cr. P. C. statement. The accused was arrested. Statements of witnesses conversant with the facts were recorded. Upon completion of investigation, a charge-sheet was filed against the appellant for commission of various offences in the court. To substantiate its case, the prosecution examined 13 witnesses. The appellant denied his involvement in the crime and pleaded false implication; he did not produce any evidence in defence. The trial resulted in his conviction as aforesaid. Being aggrieved and dissatisfied, the instant appeal has been filed.
3. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties and have examined the file. The occurrence took place during daytime at around 3. 30 p. m. when victim's mother Manju was away at her place of work. When she returned in the evening at around 8. 30 p. m. , the victim narrated the incident to her. She immediately went to the appellant's house but he was not present there. On his arrival at around 10. 00-10. 30 p. m. , she confronted and slapped him. The incident was reported immediately to the police and DD No. 87-B came into existence. In her statement (Ex. Pw-4/A), Manju gave a detailed account as to how and in what manner, her daughter 'X' (changed name) aged around five years was sexually assaulted by the appellant in her absence. The appellant was named in the FIR to be the perpetrator of the crime. In 164 Cr. P. C. statement (Ex. PW-2/F), the victim disclosed that the accused had taken her inside his room and had touched her private parts. She further disclosed that the accused had put off her underwear and had touched her private parts with tongue. In her 164 Cr. P. C. statement (Ex. PW-2/B), the complainant Manju also reiterated her version given to the police at first instance and implicated the accused to be the author of the crime.
4. Before recording her Court statement, the victim was asked various questions to find out if she was able to give rational answers to the questions put to her. The Presiding Officer after recording satisfaction that 'X' was competent to give her statement voluntarily, recorded her statement. She categorically attributed specific role to the accused in outraging her modesty in his house. She deposed that the accused had put off his underwear; he had also put off her underwear and touched her private parts; he had shown her nude photos on his mobile and had touched her private parts with his tongue. In the cross-examination, she disclosed that on the arrival of her mother, she apprised her about the occurrence. She further elaborated that the accused had done 'gandi baat' with her sister too and had shown her nude photos. She denied if the statement given by her in the court was tutored by her mother.
5. PW-4 (Manju), victim's mother corroborated her version in its entirety without any major variation. The statement of 'Y' (assumed name), victim's sister, was recorded as CW-1. In her statement 'Y' too deposed that the accused had taken her inside his house along with her sister 'X'; had shown her nude photos on his mobile; had disrobed her sister 'X'; and, had put off his underwear. In the cross-examination, she denied if she had given statement at the behest of her parents.
6. On scanning the testimonies of all these witnesses, it stands established that they are consistent throughout and despite cross-examination, nothing material could be extracted to disbelieve them. The witnesses had no ulterior motive to falsely implicate the accused for the heinous offence. They have corroborated each other without any inconsistencies and infirmities. The incident was reported without delay and the appellant was named to be the perpetrator of the crime. Specific and defined role was assigned to him. The accused taking advantage of the loneliness of the small children in the house had dared to outrage their modesty. It has come on record that victim's father Sunil was confined in Tihar Jail in a decoity case. Her mother used to go at her place of work during the daytime. It gave an opportunity to the appellant living in the neighborhood to exploit the innocence of the children. In the absence of any prior animosity or enmity, the victims and their mother are not expected to falsely implicate the appellant in a case of sexual abuse to bring themselves in disrepute. The defense put up by the accused deserves outright rejection. Nothing has come on record to show if on any particular date `10, 000/- were borrowed by victim's father from him or that to avoid the said payment, the accused was falsely implicated in this case. For a trivial issue over return of money, the victim's parents are not expected to use their kids.
7. The Trial Court has discussed all the relevant aspects and the impugned order based upon fair appraisal of the evidence deserves no intervention. Sentence order is based upon fair reasoning and warrants no interference except that default sentence for non-payment of the fine shall be Simple Imprisonment for two months instead of nine months and fifteen days in all. Other terms and conditions of the sentence order are left undisturbed.

[case 45]
1. The appellant Raju Kumar Singh has challenged the legality and correctness of a judgment dated 19. 08. 2015 of learned Additional Sessions Judge in Sessions Case No. 72/14 arising out of FIR No. 166/14 registered at Police Station Shalimar Bagh by which he was held guilty for committing offence punishable under Section 342 IPC and Sections 10 and 12 of POCSO Act. By an order dated 25. 08. 2015, he was sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for five years with fine `5, 000/- under Section 10 of POCSO Act; Rigorous Imprisonment for two months with fine `500/- under Section 342 IPC; and, Rigorous Imprisonment for one year with fine `1, 000/- under Section 12 of POCSO AC. The sentences were to operate concurrently.
2. The incident whereby the child was sexually abused was reported to the police via Daily Diary (DD) No. 87B (Ex. PW-3/A) on 21. 02. 2014 at around 10. 50 p. m. The Investigating Officer after recording the statement of victim's mother (Ex. PW-4/A) lodged First Information Report. The prosecutrix was medically examined; she recorded her 164 Cr. P. C. statement. The accused was arrested. Statements of witnesses conversant with the facts were recorded. Upon completion of investigation, a charge-sheet was filed against the appellant for commission of various offences in the court. To substantiate its case, the prosecution examined 13 witnesses. The appellant denied his involvement in the crime and pleaded false implication; he did not produce any evidence in defence. The trial resulted in his conviction as aforesaid. Being aggrieved and dissatisfied, the instant appeal has been filed.
3. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties and have examined the file. The occurrence took place during daytime at around 3. 30 p. m. when victim's mother Manju was away at her place of work. When she returned in the evening at around 8. 30 p. m. , the victim narrated the incident to her. She immediately went to the appellant's house but he was not present there. On his arrival at around 10. 00-10. 30 p. m. , she confronted and slapped him. The incident was reported immediately to the police and DD No. 87-B came into existence. In her statement (Ex. Pw-4/A), Manju gave a detailed account as to how and in what manner, her daughter 'X' (changed name) aged around five years was sexually assaulted by the appellant in her absence. The appellant was named in the FIR to be the perpetrator of the crime. In 164 Cr. P. C. statement (Ex. PW-2/F), the victim disclosed that the accused had taken her inside his room and had touched her private parts. She further disclosed that the accused had put off her underwear and had touched her private parts with tongue. In her 164 Cr. P. C. statement (Ex. PW-2/B), the complainant Manju also reiterated her version given to the police at first instance and implicated the accused to be the author of the crime.
4. Before recording her Court statement, the victim was asked various questions to find out if she was able to give rational answers to the questions put to her. The Presiding Officer after recording satisfaction that 'X' was competent to give her statement voluntarily, recorded her statement. She categorically attributed specific role to the accused in outraging her modesty in his house. She deposed that the accused had put off his underwear; he had also put off her underwear and touched her private parts; he had shown her nude photos on his mobile and had touched her private parts with his tongue. In the cross-examination, she disclosed that on the arrival of her mother, she apprised her about the occurrence. She further elaborated that the accused had done 'gandi baat' with her sister too and had shown her nude photos. She denied if the statement given by her in the court was tutored by her mother.
5. PW-4 (Manju), victim's mother corroborated her version in its entirety without any major variation. The statement of 'Y' (assumed name), victim's sister, was recorded as CW-1. In her statement 'Y' too deposed that the accused had taken her inside his house along with her sister 'X'; had shown her nude photos on his mobile; had disrobed her sister 'X'; and, had put off his underwear. In the cross-examination, she denied if she had given statement at the behest of her parents.
6. On scanning the testimonies of all these witnesses, it stands established that they are consistent throughout and despite cross-examination, nothing material could be extracted to disbelieve them. The witnesses had no ulterior motive to falsely implicate the accused for the heinous offence. They have corroborated each other without any inconsistencies and infirmities. The incident was reported without delay and the appellant was named to be the perpetrator of the crime. Specific and defined role was assigned to him. The accused taking advantage of the loneliness of the small children in the house had dared to outrage their modesty. It has come on record that victim's father Sunil was confined in Tihar Jail in a decoity case. Her mother used to go at her place of work during day time. It gave an opportunity to the appellant living in the neighborhood to exploit the innocence of the children. In the absence of any prior animosity or enmity, the victims and their mother are not expected to falsely implicate the appellant in a case of sexual abuse to bring themselves in disrepute. The defense put up by the accused deserves outright rejection. Nothing has come on record to show if on any particular date `10, 000/- were borrowed by victim's father from him or that to avoid the said payment, the accused was falsely implicated in this case. For a trivial issue over return of money, the victim's parents are not expected to use their kids.
7. The Trial Court has discussed all the relevant aspects and the impugned order based upon fair appraisal of the evidence deserves no intervention. Sentence order is based upon fair reasoning and warrants no interference except that default sentence for non-payment of the fine shall be Simple Imprisonment for two months instead of nine months and fifteen days in all. Other terms and conditions of the sentence order are left undisturbed.

[case 46]
1. The appellant Raju Kumar Singh has challenged the legality and correctness of a judgment dated 19. 08. 2015 of learned Additional Sessions Judge in Sessions Case No. 72/14 arising out of FIR No. 166/14 registered at Police Station Shalimar Bagh by which he was held guilty for committing offence punishable under Section 342 IPC and Sections 10 and 12 of POCSO Act. By an order dated 25. 08. 2015, he was sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for five years with fine `5, 000/- under Section 10 of POCSO Act; Rigorous Imprisonment for two months with fine `500/- under Section 342 IPC; and, Rigorous Imprisonment for one year with fine `1, 000/- under Section 12 of POCSO AC. The sentences were to operate concurrently.
2. The incident whereby the child was sexually abused was reported to the police via Daily Diary (DD) No. 87B (Ex. PW-3/A) on 21. 02. 2014 at around 10. 50 p. m. The Investigating Officer after recording the statement of victim's mother (Ex. PW-4/A) lodged First Information Report. The prosecutrix was medically examined; she recorded her 164 Cr. P. C. statement. The accused was arrested. Statements of witnesses conversant with the facts were recorded. Upon completion of investigation, a charge-sheet was filed against the appellant for commission of various offences in the court. To substantiate its case, the prosecution examined 13 witnesses. The appellant denied his involvement in the crime and pleaded false implication; he did not produce any evidence in defence. The trial resulted in his conviction as aforesaid. Being aggrieved and dissatisfied, the instant appeal has been filed.
3. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties and have examined the file. The occurrence took place during daytime at around 3. 30 p. m. when victim's mother Manju was away at her place of work. When she returned in the evening at around 8. 30 p. m. , the victim narrated the incident to her. She immediately went to the appellant's house but he was not present there. On his arrival at around 10. 00-10. 30 p. m. , she confronted and slapped him. The incident was reported immediately to the police and DD No. 87-B came into existence. In her statement (Ex. Pw-4/A), Manju gave a detailed account as to how and in what manner, her daughter 'X' (changed name) aged around five years was sexually assaulted by the appellant in her absence. The appellant was named in the FIR to be the perpetrator of the crime. In 164 Cr. P. C. statement (Ex. PW-2/F), the victim disclosed that the accused had taken her inside his room and had touched her private parts. She further disclosed that the accused had put off her underwear and had touched her private parts with tongue. In her 164 Cr. P. C. statement (Ex. PW-2/B), the complainant Manju also reiterated her version given to the police at first instance and implicated the accused to be the author of the crime.
4. Before recording her Court statement, the victim was asked various questions to find out if she was able to give rational answers to the questions put to her. The Presiding Officer after recording satisfaction that 'X' was competent to give her statement voluntarily, recorded her statement. She categorically attributed specific role to the accused in outraging her modesty in his house. She deposed that the accused had put off his underwear; he had also put off her underwear and touched her private parts; he had shown her nude photos on his mobile and had touched her private parts with his tongue. In the cross-examination, she disclosed that on the arrival of her mother, she apprised her about the occurrence. She further elaborated that the accused had done 'gandi baat' with her sister too and had shown her nude photos. She denied if the statement given by her in the court was tutored by her mother.
5. PW-4 (Manju), victim's mother corroborated her version in its entirety without any major variation. The statement of 'Y' (assumed name), victim's sister, was recorded as CW-1. In her statement 'Y' too deposed that the accused had taken her inside his house along with her sister 'X'; had shown her nude photos on his mobile; had disrobed her sister 'X'; and, had put off his underwear. In the cross-examination, she denied if she had given statement at the behest of her parents.
6. On scanning the testimonies of all these witnesses, it stands established that they are consistent throughout and despite cross-examination, nothing material could be extracted to disbelieve them. The witnesses had no ulterior motive to falsely implicate the accused for the heinous offence. They have corroborated each other without any inconsistencies and infirmities. The incident was reported without delay and the appellant was named to be the perpetrator of the crime. Specific and defined role was assigned to him. The accused taking advantage of the loneliness of the small children in the house had dared to outrage their modesty. It has come on record that victim's father Sunil was confined in Tihar Jail in a decoity case. Her mother used to go at her place of work during daytime. It gave an opportunity to the appellant living in the neighborhood to exploit the innocence of the children. In the absence of any prior animosity or enmity, the victims and their mother are not expected to falsely implicate the appellant in a case of sexual abuse to bring themselves in disrepute. The defense put up by the accused deserves outright rejection. Nothing has come on record to show if on any particular date `10, 000/- were borrowed by victim's father from him or that to avoid the said payment, the accused was falsely implicated in this case. For a trivial issue over return of money, the victim's parents are not expected to use their kids.
7. The Trial Court has discussed all the relevant aspects and the impugned order based upon fair appraisal of the evidence deserves no intervention. Sentence order is based upon fair reasoning and warrants no interference except that default sentence for non-payment of the fine shall be Simple Imprisonment for two months instead of nine months and fifteen days in all. Other terms and conditions of the sentence order are left undisturbed.

[case 47]
Arising Out of PS. Case No. -20 Year-2018 Thana- MAHILA P. S. District- Rohtas
======================================================
Sunita Pandey, W/o Binod Kumar Pandey, R/o Mohalla-Gaurakshani (Gajradh), P. S. - Sasaram, DIST- Rohtas, BIHAR.
. .. .. . Appellant
1. The State of Bihar
2. Binod Kumar Pandey S/o Parshuram Pandey R/O Village- Sidhabadh, P. S. - Itadih, Dist- Buxar
3. Ashok Kumar Pandey @ Daya Pandey S/o Parshuram Pandey R/o Village- Sidhabadh, P. S. - Itadih, Dist- Buxar
4. Urmila Devi W/o Shambhu Choubey R/V- Devariya, P. S. - Niwaon, Dist- Kaimur
. .. .. . Respondents
======================================================
For the Appellant/s: Mr. Ravindra Kumar Shukla, Advocate
For the Respondent/s: Mr. Bipin Kumar, APP
======================================================
COURT: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJEEV RANJAN PRASAD and HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. B. PD. SINGH
ORAL JUDGMENT (Per: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJEEV RANJAN PRASAD)
Date: 09-01-2025
Heard learned counsel for the appellant and learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State. The trial court records have been received.
This appeal against the judgment of acquittal has been preferred for setting aside the judgment dated 24. 02. 2024 passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge-IV, Rohtas at Sasaram in Sessions Trial No. 411 of 2018 arising out of Dehri Rohtas Mahila P. S. Case No.
The prosecution story is based on the written report submitted by Sunita Pandey, Prosecution Witness '5', which reads as under:
The informant states that she was married on 12. 06. 2010 in accordance with Hindu rites and customs with Binod Kumar Pandey. She claims that her father had given a sum of Rs. 10 lakhs in cash and other articles together by way of gift. She has further stated that for some time after the marriage, everything was going well, but later on her husband Binod Kumar Pandey, bhaishur Ashok Kumar Pandey, father-in-law Parshuram Pandey, nanad Urmila Devi and nandoi Shambhu Chaubey acting with preconcert of mind, started asking her to tell her father to purchase a piece of land in any of the towns in the State of Uttar Pradesh. She alleged that on her refusal to do so, all of them together started torturing her mentally and physically whereafter under compulsion, she told her father, thereafter her father got registered 1 kattha of land in Siddharth Nagar Mohalla of Mughalsarai in the joint name of the informant and her husband. She alleged that the price of the land being Rs. 12 lakhs was paid by her father. She has further alleged that thereafter, for some time again, everything went well but once again, the accused persons started demanding a four-wheeler vehicle and for that she was being tortured in many ways. Her father was not able to meet the said demand. On 15. 03. 2018 her husband took her to Mughalsarai for showing under construction house where her Bhaishur Ashok Kumar Pandey was already present. At about 10: 00 PM, she asked her husband as to when they would return to Allahabad then her husband and bhaisur asked her to bring either a four-wheeler vehicle or allow her husband to solemnise a second marriage and for this, they demanded a written consent. She alleged that when she denied this, then she was assaulted and her neck was pressed by a towel ('gamchha') whereafter, she became unconscious. Thereafter, they left her thinking that she had died. The informant stated that when she regained consciousness then somehow concealing herself, she came out of the house and reached her maike, where her father took her to Sadar Hospital, Sasaram for treatment. She stated to have enclosed a xerox copy of the slips with her written application. Her father and brother went to her sasural to inquire into but they were abused and threatened that the situation will not change till the demand is fulfilled.
On the basis of the written report of the informant, Dehri Rohtas Mahila P. S. Case No. 20 of 2018 was registered on 21. 03. 2018. After investigation of the case, the Investigating Officer submitted a chargesheet under Section 307, 498A and 120B IPC. The learned ACJM, Sasaram took cognizance of the offence on 13. 08. 2018 whereafter the police papers were supplied and records were committed to the Court of Sessions. The accused persons were explained the charges which they denied and claimed to be tried. Accordingly, charges were framed against them for the offences punishable under Sections 307, 498A and 120B IPC. Against the rest of the accused, charges were framed under Sections 498A and 120B IPC. After framing of the charges, the accused, namely, Parshuram Pandey and Shambhu Choubey died during trial, therefore, only three accused faced trial. The learned trial court framed the following points for determination: (a) Whether the accused Ashok Kumar Pandey and Binod Kumar Pandey attempted to kill the informant Sunita Pandey at Mughalsarai on 15. 03. 2018 and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 307 IPC; (b) Whether the accused persons committed cruelty against the informant in connection with demand of dowry and thereby committed an offence under Section 498A IPC. The learned trial court examined the evidences available on the record and found that in the instant case, admittedly the marriage of the victim was solemnised with the accused Binod Kumar Pandey according to Hindu Rites and Customs. Regarding the demand of a plot in the State of Uttar Pradesh and supply of Rs. 12, 00, 000/- by victim's father, the prosecution examined the victim's father as PW-1 who stated in his cross-examination that he handed over the said money in cash but did not use to get acknowledgment for the same. The learned trial court found that according to his deposition, the accused used to harass his daughter since 2010 but he tendered the money after 5-6 years. Further, it was found that the victim has admitted in her cross-examination about the effort and expenditure made by her accused husband in her treatment for enabling her to get a child. The learned trial court, ultimately reached to a finding that the prosecution had failed to bring home all the necessary ingredients to convict the accused under Sections 307, 498A and 120B IPC. Accordingly, the learned trial court directed acquittal of the four accused persons who were facing the charges.

[case 48]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 13TH DAY OF OCTOBER 2017 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE BUDIHAL R. B. CRIMINAL PETITION No. 6011/2017 BETWEEN: Santosh S/o Venkateshappa Aged about 29 years R/at Anuru village Sidlaghatta taluk Chickballapur District-562 101. .. PETITIONER (By Sri A N Radha Krishna, Adv. ) AND: The State of Karnataka by Shidlaghatta Rural Police Chikkaballapura District Represented by the State Public Prosecutor High Court of Karnataka Bengaluru-560 001. .. RESPONDENT (By Sri Chetan Desai, HCGP) This criminal petition is filed under Section 439 of the Cr. P. C. praying to enlarge the petitioner on bail in Cr. No. 53/2017 of Shidlagatta Rural P. S. , Chickballapura District for the offences punishable under Sections 504, 376D read with Section 34 of IPC and Section 4, 6, 8 of POCSO Act. Brief facts of the prosecution case are that on 10. 03. 2017 at 09. 30 a. m. , the respondent police received a phone call from Chikkaballapura Government Hospital and accordingly, the police went to the hospital and recorded the complainant Niveditha's statement before the Doctor. It is alleged in the statement that the victim is studying in first year B. Com. , at Chikkaballapura Pre-University College. Her mother died when she was young and she is residing with her father. Earlier when she was in her senior uncle Thimmarayppa's House, there was a call from her village person Santhosh (petitioner) phone 9663422243 to her Senior Uncle Thimmarayppa's Phone No. 87110009631. At that time, since her senior uncle Thimmarayppa was not in the house, she received and talked to him. Again, he telephoned and asked her to go near the temple under construction, for which, when she told that she will not come, he threatened and asked her to come. When the victim went there, he tried to remove/untie the chudidar and in spite of her request not to remove, he removed her clothes and sexually abused her and thereafter, he left to Bengaluru. It is further alleged that again one Naveen of her village has become close, used to talk with her. He took her near the temple and by removing chudidar and by force, sexually abused her. Again on 13. 6. 2016, the said Naveen forcibly made her to come and sexually abused. After her father came to know the same, advised her. It is alleged that on 07. 07. 2016, her father passed away. Her aunt got her admitted to BCM Hostel. It is stated that after Shivarathri festival, after noticing her womb, her aunt took her to the Doctor at Chikkaballapura on 25. 02. 2017 and Doctors told her, she is pregnant of 9 months and advised her to go to Swadhara Centre. Accordingly, her aunt got her admitted. On 03. 03. 2017, she gave birth to a male child. After discharge, she came to Chikkaballapura Hospital. On the basis of the said complaint, the case was registered by the respondent police for the said offences against the petitioner herein and one Naveen, who has been arrayed as accused No. 2. I have heard the learned Counsel appearing for the petitioner-accused and the learned High Court Government Pleader appearing for the respondent-State. Learned Counsel appearing for the petitioner, during the course of the arguments, submitted that for the purpose of appreciation of case, if the date of complaint is taken into consideration, it is filed after delay of two years. He submitted that the call details are not collected by the investigating officer. Even looking to the complaint averments, she has stated that one person called her over phone with particular number. It is submitted by the learned Counsel that in the complaint itself, the phone number is mentioned that subsequently, similar acts of sexual assault was made on her by one Naveen, who is accused No. 2. The learned Counsel draws the attention of the court to the materials and submitted that DNA test was conducted and the report of the laboratory goes to show that the petitioner is not involved in commission of the alleged offence. Hence, he submitted to allow the petition and admit the petitioner to the regular bail. Per contra, learned High Court Government Pleader appearing for the respondent-State, opposed the petition and submitted that so far as the complaint averments and the other materials produced by the prosecution, there are allegations against the petitioner that he had called the victim girl to a particular place and had sexual intercourse with her. The learned HCGP submitted that though the DNA report, no doubt, shows the name of accused No. 2 as biological father of the said child, but in view of the allegations made in the complaint and other material collected during investigation, the petitioner is not entitled to the regular bail. Investigation of the case is completed and the charge sheet has been filed. As submitted by learned HCGP, in the DNA report, the name of accused NO. 2 Naveen is shown as the biological father of the said child. So far as the petitioner is concerned, he has denied the allegation made in the complaint and contended that he has been falsely implicated in the case and that, he is innocent. As it is rightly submitted that as per the complaint averments, one person was called the victim girl over the phone to a particular place and phone number is also mentioned. But the call details are not collected. The contention of the prosecution regarding the allegations of sexual assault on the victim girl by the petitioner is concerned, it is a matter of trial. From the date of arrest, he is in custody. In view of the finding given by the DNA test laboratory and denial of the allegations made by the petitioner and as submitted, there is delay of two years in lodging the complaint from the date of incident, so far as the petitioner is concerned, it is a fit case to exercise discretion in favour of the petitioner. Hence, the petition is allowed. The petitioner-accused No. 1 is ordered to be released on bail of the offences punishable under Sections 504, 376(d) read with Section 34 of IPC and also under Sections 4, 6 and 8 of POCSO Act registered in respondent police station Crime No. 53/2017, subject to following conditions: I. Petitioner shall execute bond for a sum of Rs. 1, 00, 000/- and shall offer one solvent surety for the like sum to the satisfaction of concerned Court. II. The petitioner shall not intimidate or tamper with prosecution witnesses, directly or indirectly. III. The petitioner shall regularly attend the Court.

[case 49]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 10TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2020 BEFORE: THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE MOHAMMAD NAWAZ CRIMINAL APPEAL No. 564/2019 BETWEEN CHANDRASHEKAR @ RAJESH, S/O. LATE PURUSHOTHAM, AGED 50 YEARS, R/AT MALEMAR HOUSE, GORIGUDDE, KANKANADY VILLAGE, MANGALURU TALUK, PRESENTLY R/AT MOHAM COMPOUND, ASSAIGOLI, KONAJE, MANGALURU-574 214. .. . APPELLANT [BY SRI. KARUNAKAR P. , ADVOCATE] AND THE STATE BY SUB-INSPECTOR OF POLICE, KONAJE POLICE STATION, REPRESENTED BY STATE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, ATTACHED TO THE OFFICE OF ADVOCATE GENERAL, HIGH COURT, BANGALORE-560 001. .. . RESPONDENT [BY SRI. K. NAGESHWARAPPA, HCGP] THIS CRIMINAL APPEAL IS FILED U/S 374(2) OF CR. P. C. , PRAYING TO SET ASIDE THE JUDGMENT OF CONVICTION DATED 13. 12. 2018 AND ORDER ON SENTENCE DATED 15. 12. 2018 PASSED BY THE II ADDITIONAL DISTRICT AND SESSIONS (SPECIAL) JUDGE D. K. , MANGALORE IN SPL. CASE NO. 207/2016, CONVICTING THE APPELLANT/ACCUSED FOR THE OFFENCE P/U/S 5(m) P/U/S 6 OF POCSO ACT. THIS CRIMINAL APPEAL COMING ON FOR FURTHER HEARING THIS DAY, THE COURT DELIVERED THE FOLLOWING: JUDGMENT This is an appeal filed by the accused challenging the Judgment and Order dated 13. 12. 2018/15. 12. 2018 passed by the Court of II Additional District and Sessions [Special] Judge, D. K. , Mangaluru, in Special Case No. 207/2016, convicting and sentencing him for the offence under Section 5(m) punishable under Section 6 of the Protection of the Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 [hereinafter referred to as 'POCSO Act' for short]. The factual matrix of the case as put-forth by the prosecution is as under: A complaint was lodged by Smt. Vidya on 25. 07. 2016 at about 10. 00 p. m. , at Konaje Police Station against the accused. It is stated by the first informant that she and her husband are living along with their two children. Her husband was doing centering work. On 23. 07. 2016, when she was giving warm water bath to her daughter, aged about 4 years, her daughter asked her not to pour warm water on her private part as she was having burning sensation. The first informant did not take it seriously. Again on the next day, when she was giving warm water bath to her daughter, she told her not to pour warm water on her private part as she was having burning sensation. Again in the afternoon when she was giving warm water bath to her daughter, she told her that she was having pain and burning sensation in her private part. When she enquired with her daughter, her daughter informed that on 23. 07. 2016 when she had gone to the house of the neighbour uncle [accused] for watching T. V. , at that time, he lifted her and inserted his finger on her private part and tickled her. Thereafter, at about 2. 00 p. m. , when the first informant and her daughter were in the front yard, at that time, her daughter showed the accused and told her that he is the one who took her inside the house and inserted the finger in her private part and tickled her. On the basis of the aforesaid complaint lodged by the mother of the victim girl, a case was registered in Crime No. 192/2016 of Konaje Police Station against the accused for the offence punishable under Sections 3(a) and 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012, by P. W. 11 and he issued Ex. P6-FIR to the jurisdictional Court and thereafter handed over the investigation to P. W. 13-Police Inspector. P. W. 13 proceeded with the investigation and conducted spot-mahazar as per Ex. P2. The victim girl was sent for medical examination and her medical examination was conducted by P. W. 4. The statement of the victim girl was recorded by the Magistrate under Section 164 of Cr. P. C. The articles collected during the course of investigation were sent for forensic examination. After completion of the investigation, charge-sheet was filed against the accused for the offence punishable under Sections 3(a) and 4 of the POCSO Act. Initially, charges were framed against the accused for the offence punishable under Sections 3(b) and 4 of the POCSO Act on 27. 04. 2017. Additional charges were framed for the offence punishable under Sections 5(m) and 6 of the POCSO Act. The accused pleaded not guilty to the charges framed against him and claimed to be tried. Before the trial Court, the prosecution got examined P. Ws. 1 to 15 and got marked Exs. P1 to 9 and M. O. 1. The accused denied all the incriminating evidence appeared against him while his statement was recorded under Section 313 of Cr. P. C. However, the accused did not choose to lead any evidence on his behalf. The learned Sessions Judge after considering the evidence and material on record, convicted and sentenced the accused for the offence under Section 5(m) punishable under Section 6 of the POCSO Act. Aggrieved by the same, the present appeal has been preferred. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant/accused has vehemently contended that the impugned Judgment and Order passed by the trial Court is opposed to law, facts and probabilities of the case. The trial Court has committed grave error in convicting the accused though the prosecution has utterly failed to prove the guilt of the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. He submits that on account of previous enmity, a false complaint was lodged against the accused. There is an inordinate delay in lodging the complaint. The medical evidence does not corroborate with the evidence of the prosecution witnesses. The victim has been tutored by her parents to give false evidence against the accused, which is evident from her cross-examination. He submits that the trial Court has erred in observing that the contradictions in a child's testimony should not be given the same effect as in the testimony of an adult by ignoring the admission given by the victim that she was tutored by her mother to give evidence as deposed by her. He submits that the evidence of the victim girl clearly shows that she was acting under the influence of her parents and therefore, she is a tutored witness. Hence, it is not safe to act upon such evidence particularly when the medical evidence does not corroborate with the evidence of the victim. He therefore submits that the impugned Judgment and Order of conviction and sentence passed by the trial Court be set aside and the appeal be allowed. .. The remaining text goes on to explain more specifics regarding the legal proceedings, testimonies, medical reports, and the final decision regarding the appeal.

[case 50]
Mr. X- Juvenile vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 4 April, 2023
HON'BLE SANJAY KUMAR PACHORI, J.
1. Heard Sri Shivam Yadav, Advocate holding brief of Sri Rajesh Yadav, learned counsel for the revisionist, Sri Ghanshyam Kesarwani, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material available on record. Despite service of notice upon opposite party No. 2, none appears on his behalf.
2. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his mother under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as "JJ Act, 2015") against the judgment dated 24. 9. 2022 passed by Special Judge (POCSO Act), Auraiya in Criminal Appeal No. 26 of 2022, whereby the appellate court has rejected the Criminal appeal and affirmed the order dated 29. 8. 2022 passed by Juvenile Justice Board, Auraiya. The Juvenile Justice Board has rejected the bail application of the revisionist, which has been filed by his natural guardian/mother, under Section 12 of "JJ Act, 2015" arising out of Case Crime No. 20 of 2022, under Sections 363, 366, 376, 504, 506 of the Indian Penal Code (in short "I. P. C. ") and Section 3/4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, Police Station- Bidhuna, District- Auraiya.
3. Learned counsel for the revisionist submits that the revisionist is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case due to ulterior motive. The revisionist was 15 years, 1 month and 6 days old at the time of the incident. As per educational certificate, the Juvenile Justice Board declared the revisionist as juvenile vide order dated 29. 8. 2022 and no proceeding is pending against the aforesaid order. It is further submitted that the FIR has been lodged against the revisionist and three other named persons by father of the victim. It is further submitted that there is material contradictions in the statement of the victim recorded under Section 161 and 164 Cr. P. C. As per statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C. , the victim has gone to the house of her friend in Kanpur and the father of the victim lodged false FIR against the revisionist. It is further submitted that as per educational certificate, victim was 14 years and 5 months old at the time of incident. As per medical report, no external or internal injury has been found on the person of the victim. Clothes have been changed due to which the clothes have not been collected during the investigation. The revisionist is in protective custody in an observation home since 25. 4. 2022.
4. It is further submitted that the finding recorded by the court below is against the social information report and is based on surmises and conjectures. It has been further submitted that there is no evidence to show that if the revisionist is released on bail, his release is likely to bring him into association with any known criminal, or expose him to moral, physical, or psychological danger, or that his release would defeat the ends of justice. No such findings were recorded as to how he will come in contact with known criminals and how he will be exposed to moral, physical, or psychological danger, or that his release would defeat the ends of justice.
5. Learned counsel for the revisionist further submits that the revisionist has no criminal antecedent to his credit except the present case and is not a previous convict nor is he associated with any kind of unsocial or criminal activities. There is no report regarding any previous criminal antecedents of the family of the revisionist. The natural guardian/mother of the revisionist has given an undertaking that if the revisionist is released on bail, she will keep him in her custody and look after him properly and has assured on behalf of the juvenile that she is ready to cooperate with the process of law and shall faithfully make the juvenile available before the court whenever required and is also ready to accept all the conditions which the Court may deem fit.
6. It has been further submitted that the Juvenile Justice Board as well as the Appellate Court have not appreciated the Social Information Report of the Probation Officer in its right perspective and passed the impugned judgment and order in a cursory manner without considering the position of law and have declined bail to the revisionist. The bare perusal of the impugned orders demonstrates that the same has been passed on flimsy grounds, which have occasioned a gross miscarriage of justice. The judgment and order passed by the learned court below are illegal, contrary to law, and is based on the erroneous assumption of facts and law.
7. Per contra; learned A. G. A. for the State defended the impugned judgment and order passed by the Appellate Court as well as the Juvenile Justice Board and contended that the revisionist has committed a heinous crime. Considering the gravity of the offence, the present criminal revision is liable to be dismissed.
8. I have carefully considered the submissions made by the learned counsel for the revisionist and learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material on record.
9. The bail application under Section 12 of "JJ Act, 2015" has been rejected by the Juvenile Justice Board vide order dated 29. 8. 2022 observing that there appears a reasonable ground for believing that the guardian of the juvenile has no effective control over the revisionist and there is a possibility of re-occurrence of the offence after his release. Furthermore, he has committed the heinous offence and indulged in this activity due to lack of discipline. The appellate court has also affirmed the order passed by the Juvenile Justice Board. The appellate court without considering the social information report of the Probation Officer in its right perspective as well as without returning any finding on the three exceptions declined the bail to the revisionist and rejected the appeal after observing that the parents of the juvenile are unable to keep the juvenile under control. There is a lack of availability of a consultant and if the juvenile is released on bail, he is likely to go into association with known criminals.

[case 51]
(\By Sri. T. K. Rajagopala, Advocate) AND 1. State of Karnataka
By Ashok Nagar Police Station
Represented by State Public Prosecutor
High Court of Karnataka
Bengaluru - 560 001.
2. Smt. Dhanalakhsmi
W/o Rakesh Sharma
Aged about 32 years
R/at No. 7E, 1st Floor
Eat Street, Akkithimanahalli
Bengaluru - 560 027. .. . Respondents
(\By Sri. R. D. Renukaradhya, HCGP for R1;
R2 is served and unrepresented)
This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of Cr. P. C. , praying to enlarge the petitioner on bail in Cr. No. 223/2020 of Ashok Nagar Police Station, Bengaluru City for the offence punishable under Section 376, 506 of IPC and Sections 4, 6, 8, 12 and 14 of POCSO Act.
This Criminal Petition coming on for Orders, this day through Video Conference the Court made the following: ORDER The present petition has been filed by the petitioner/accused under Section 439 of Cr. P. C. to release him on bail in Crime No. 223/2020 of Ashoknagar Police Station for the offence punishable under Sections 376 and 506 of IPC and also under Sections 4, 6, 8, 12 and 14 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as 'the POCSO Act' for short).
I have heard Sri. T. K. Rajagopala, learned counsel for the petitioner/accused and Sri. R. D. Renukaradhya, learned High Court Government Pleader for respondent No. 1-State. Though the notice has been served to the complainant, she has remained absent.
The gist of the case of the complainant in brief is that the complainant is none other than the wife of the petitioner/accused. During the year 2009, they have got married and out of the said wedlock, they have begotten a female child. From 2010-19 they were staying in Tamil Nadu. During the year 2019, they came and started to reside in Bengaluru. It is further alleged that her husband is in the habit of watching porn videos in the mobile and he was also showing the same to the complainant and he used to assault, abuse and used to pull and push her daughter. On 08. 09. 2020, her victim daughter came and told her that when the complainant was not there in the house, the petitioner/accused being the father of the victim used to remove her pant and press her chest and was also showing porn videos in the mobile and ill-treat and harass. He was also threatening the victim that if she is not going to hear his words, he will put poison in the food and kill the victim and her mother. On the basis of the complaint, a case has been registered.
It is the submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner/accused that the petitioner/accused is innocent and only with an intention to harass him, a false case has been registered by the wife of the accused. It is his further submission that the statement of the victim has been recorded under Sections 161 and 164 of Cr. P. C. There is no allegation for having sexually assaulted the victim. It is his further submission that provisions of Sections 4 and 5 of the POCSO Act and Section 376 of IPC are not attracted to the petitioner/accused. It is his further submission that already the investigation has been completed and charge sheet has been filed. The petitioner/accused is not required for the purpose of further investigation or interrogation. It is his further submission that the petitioner/accused is ready to abide by any of the conditions that may be imposed by this Court and ready to offer sureties. On these grounds, he prayed to allow the petition.
Per contra, learned High Court Government Pleader vehemently argued and submitted that the petitioner/accused being the father of the victim has sexually assaulted her by pressing her breast and was showing porn videos in his mobile. The said mobile has been seized by the Police. On these grounds, he prayed to dismiss the petition.
I have carefully and cautiously gone through the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties and perused the charge sheet material.
On going through the statement of the victim, the material produced does not substantiate the fact to attract the provisions of Section 376 of IPC. Even the medical evidence is also not corroborated to the charge sheet material. The victim has been examined before the learned Magistrate under Section 164 of Cr. P. C. but in the said statement also she has not specifically stated for having committed any sexual assault on her. Under such circumstances, the provisions of Sections 4 and 6 are also not attracted. At the most, the provision of Sections 7 and 8 are attracted and as per Section 8 of the POCSO Act, the offence is punishable with 5 years and also liable to be fine.
Taking into consideration of the above said circumstances, I am of the considered opinion that by imposing some stringent conditions if the petitioner/accused is released on bail, it is going to meet the ends of justice.
In that light, the petition is allowed and the petitioner/accused is ordered to be enlarged on bail in Crime No. Crime No. 223/2020 of Ashoknagar Police Station for the offence punishable under Sections 376 and 506 of IPC and also under Sections 4, 6, 8, 12 and 14 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, subject to the following conditions; i) The petitioner/accused shall execute a personal bond for a sum of Rs. 2, 00, 000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs Only) with two sureties for the likesum to the satisfaction of the trial Court.
ii) He shall not tamper with the prosecution evidence directly or indirectly.
iii) He shall not leave the jurisdiction of the Court without prior permission. iv) He shall mark his attendance once in 15 days of every month between 10: 00 a. m. and 5: 00 p. m. till the trial is concluded. v) He shall not indulge in similar type of criminal activities. If he again indulged in similar type of criminal activities or violates any one of the condition, the trial Court is at liberty to cancel the bail.

[case 52]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA KALABURAGI BENCH DATED THIS THE 14TH DAY OF MARCH, 2017 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE B. A. PATIL CRIMINAL PETITION No. 200301/2017 Between: 1. Basawaraj Nayak S/o Dyawappa Malladgud Age: 40 years, Occ: Agriculture R/o PWD Camp, Sirwar Village Tq. Manvi, Dist. Raichur 2. Smt. Laxmi W/o Basawaraj Nayak Age: 35 years, Occ: Household R/o PWD Camp, Sirwar village Tq. Manvi, Dist. Raichur. .. Petitioners (By Sri Avinash A. Uploankar, Advocate for Sri Shivanand Patil, Advocate) And: The State through Manvi Police Station Represented by Addl. SPP High Court of Karnataka Kalaburagi Bench. .. Respondent (By Sri P. S. Patil, HCGP) This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of Cr. P. C. , praying to enlarge the petitioners on bail in Spl. FIR (POCSO) 10/2017 pending on the file of Additional Sessions Judge, Raichur, which is registered for the offences punishable under Sections 376, 109, 504, 307, 506 r/w Section 34 of IPC and also for the offences punishable under Sections 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. This petition is coming on for Orders this day, the Court made the following: - ORDER This petition is filed by the petitioners/accused Nos. 2 and 3 under Section 439 of Cr. P. C. , seeking regular bail in Crime No. 22/2017 of Manvi Police Station, registered for the offences punishable under Sections 376, 109, 504, 307, 506 r/w Section 34 of IPC and also for the offences punishable under Sections 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ('the Act' for short). Brief facts leading to filing of the complaint are that the victim has been brought up in the house of the complainant. Accused No. 1/child-in-conflict with law used to visit the house of his sister. In that light, on 24. 01. 2017 at about 9. 00 p. m. , the complainant received information by the people of that area to the effect that accused No. 1/child-in-conflict with law has outraged the modesty of the victim and she was screaming and immediately, she went to the house of Huligemma and through window she saw the child-in-conflict with law was undressed and was outraging the modesty of the victim. Despite shouting, he did not open the door and finally, he outraged the modesty of the victim and returned to home. Next day, when her husband came to home, the complainant narrated the incident to him and her husband called the petitioners over the phone and asked them to come over to the village to discuss about the incident. On 25. 01. 2017 at about 11. 00 p. m. , when the complainant was in the house, the accused persons came there by holding deadly weapons and started abusing her by saying that they wanted to grab the land belonging to the victim as such, they have got committed the said offence through accused No. 1. They have assaulted on the head of the complainant with stick and assaulted by hands. On hearing the noise, neighbors came and rescued her. I have heard the learned counsel for the petitioners and the learned High Court Government Pleader appearing for respondent-State. The main grounds urged by Sri Avinash A. Uploankar, learned counsel appearing for Sri Shivanand Patil, learned counsel for the petitioners are that petitioners have been implicated in this case only with an intention to grab the property. The allegations made against the petitioners are that they have abetted accused No. 1 to commit the said crime and they have assaulted the complainant on the next day when they went to question about the alleged incident. There are no overt-acts so far as the other offences which have been committed by accused No. 1. He has also contended that the injured has been discharged from the hospital. He has further contended that petitioners have got both movable and immovable properties, therefore, there is no chance of they being absconded. He has also contended that if the petitioners are released on bail, they are ready to abide by the conditions to be imposed by this Court and they are ready to offer sureties. On these grounds, he prays for allowing the petition. On the contrary, learned High Court Government Pleader appearing for the respondent-State has vehemently contended that petitioners have abetted accused No. 1 to commit serious offence of sexual assault against the victim. He has also contended that at this juncture, if the petitioners are released on bail, they may tamper with the prosecution witnesses, they may abscond and they may not be available for trial. On these grounds, he prays for dismissal of the petition. I have gone through the contents of the complaint and other material produced along with the petition. On going through the contents of the complaint, it would indicate that at the first instance the alleged incident has taken place on 24. 01. 2017 by accused No. 1 who is considered to be child in conflict with law. He has been released on bail by the Juvenile Justice Board. The allegation made against the petitioners is that when they had been to the house of the complainant on 25. 01. 2017 at about 11. 00 p. m. , they have abused and assaulted the complainant with stick, hands and thereby, caused injuries. When the injured has been discharged from the hospital and when there are no serious allegations against the petitioners except the allegation of abetment, I feel that if the petitioners are released on bail by imposing stringent conditions, it would safeguard the interest of the prosecution and it would meet the ends of justice. For the aforementioned reasons, the petition is allowed and petitioners/accused Nos. 2 and 3 are ordered to be released on bail, subject to the following conditions: i) The petitioners shall execute personal bonds for a sum of Rs. 2, 00, 000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs Only) each with two solvent sureties each for the likesum to the satisfaction of the jurisdictional Court; ii) The petitioners shall not indulge in hampering the investigation or tampering the prosecution witnesses; iii) The petitioners shall make themselves available to the Investigating Officer as and when required; iv) The petitioners shall appear before the Trial Court regularly on all the dates of hearing without fail. v) The petitioners shall not leave the jurisdiction of the concerned Court without its prior permission.

[case 53]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 10TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2020 BEFORE: THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE MOHAMMAD NAWAZ CRIMINAL APPEAL No. 564/2019 BETWEEN CHANDRASHEKAR @ RAJESH, S/O. LATE PURUSHOTHAM, AGED 50 YEARS, R/AT MALEMAR HOUSE, GORIGUDDE, KANKANADY VILLAGE, MANGALURU TALUK, PRESENTLY R/AT MOHAM COMPOUND, ASSAIGOLI, KONAJE, MANGALURU-574 214. .. . APPELLANT [BY SRI. KARUNAKAR P. , ADVOCATE] AND THE STATE BY SUB-INSPECTOR OF POLICE, KONAJE POLICE STATION, REPRESENTED BY STATE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, ATTACHED TO THE OFFICE OF ADVOCATE GENERAL, HIGH COURT, BANGALORE-560 001. .. . RESPONDENT [BY SRI. K. NAGESHWARAPPA, HCGP] THIS CRIMINAL APPEAL IS FILED U/S 374(2) OF CR. P. C. , PRAYING TO SET ASIDE THE JUDGMENT OF CONVICTION DATED 13. 12. 2018 AND ORDER ON SENTENCE DATED 15. 12. 2018 PASSED BY THE II ADDITIONAL DISTRICT AND SESSIONS (SPECIAL) JUDGE D. K. , MANGALORE IN SPL. CASE NO. 207/2016, CONVICTING THE APPELLANT/ACCUSED FOR THE OFFENCE P/U/S 5(m) P/U/S 6 OF POCSO ACT. THIS CRIMINAL APPEAL COMING ON FOR FURTHER HEARING THIS DAY, THE COURT DELIVERED THE FOLLOWING: JUDGMENT This is an appeal filed by the accused challenging the Judgment and Order dated 13. 12. 2018/15. 12. 2018 passed by the Court of II Additional District and Sessions [Special] Judge, D. K. , Mangaluru, in Special Case No. 207/2016, convicting and sentencing him for the offence under Section 5(m) punishable under Section 6 of the Protection of the Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 [hereinafter referred to as 'POCSO Act' for short]. The factual matrix of the case as put-forth by the prosecution is as under: A complaint was lodged by Smt. Vidya on 25. 07. 2016 at about 10. 00 p. m. , at Konaje Police Station against the accused. It is stated by the first informant that she and her husband are living along with their two children. Her husband was doing centering work. On 23. 07. 2016, when she was giving warm water bath to her daughter, aged about 4 years, her daughter asked her not to pour warm water on her private part as she was having burning sensation. The first informant did not take it seriously. Again on the next day, when she was giving warm water bath to her daughter, she told her not to pour warm water on her private part as she was having burning sensation. Again in the afternoon when she was giving warm water bath to her daughter, she told her that she was having pain and burning sensation in her private part. When she enquired with her daughter, her daughter informed that on 23. 07. 2016 when she had gone to the house of the neighbour uncle [accused] for watching T. V. , at that time, he lifted her and inserted his finger on her private part and tickled her. Thereafter, at about 2. 00 p. m. , when the first informant and her daughter were in the front yard, at that time, her daughter showed the accused and told her that he is the one who took her inside the house and inserted the finger in her private part and tickled her. On the basis of the aforesaid complaint lodged by the mother of the victim girl, a case was registered in Crime No. 192/2016 of Konaje Police Station against the accused for the offence punishable under Sections 3(a) and 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012, by P. W. 11 and he issued Ex. P6-FIR to the jurisdictional Court and thereafter handed over the investigation to P. W. 13-Police Inspector. P. W. 13 proceeded with the investigation and conducted spot-mahazar as per Ex. P2. The victim girl was sent for medical examination and her medical examination was conducted by P. W. 4. The statement of the victim girl was recorded by the Magistrate under Section 164 of Cr. P. C. The articles collected during the course of investigation were sent for forensic examination. After completion of the investigation, charge-sheet was filed against the accused for the offence punishable under Sections 3(a) and 4 of the POCSO Act. Initially, charges were framed against the accused for the offence punishable under Sections 3(b) and 4 of the POCSO Act on 27. 04. 2017. Additional charges were framed for the offence punishable under Sections 5(m) and 6 of the POCSO Act. The accused pleaded not guilty to the charges framed against him and claimed to be tried. Before the trial Court, the prosecution got examined P. Ws. 1 to 15 and got marked Exs. P1 to 9 and M. O. 1. The accused denied all the incriminating evidence appeared against him while his statement was recorded under Section 313 of Cr. P. C. However, the accused did not choose to lead any evidence on his behalf. The learned Sessions Judge after considering the evidence and material on record, convicted and sentenced the accused for the offence under Section 5(m) punishable under Section 6 of the POCSO Act. Aggrieved by the same, the present appeal has been preferred. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant/accused has vehemently contended that the impugned Judgment and Order passed by the trial Court is opposed to law, facts and probabilities of the case. The trial Court has committed grave error in convicting the accused though the prosecution has utterly failed to prove the guilt of the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. He submits that on account of previous enmity, a false complaint was lodged against the accused. There is an inordinate delay in lodging the complaint. The medical evidence does not corroborate with the evidence of the prosecution witnesses. The victim has been tutored by her parents to give false evidence against the accused, which is evident from her cross-examination. He submits that the trial Court has erred in observing that the contradictions in a child's testimony should not be given the same effect as in the testimony of an adult by ignoring the admission given by the victim that she was tutored by her mother to give evidence as deposed by her. He submits that the evidence of the victim girl clearly shows that she was acting under the influence of her parents and therefore, she is a tutored witness. Hence, it is not safe to act upon such evidence particularly when the medical evidence does not corroborate with the evidence of the victim. He therefore submits that the impugned Judgment and Order of conviction and sentence passed by the trial Court be set aside and the appeal be allowed. ..

[case 54]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Manju Shrivastava vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 16 January, 2025. This revision under Section 438 read with Section 442 of the BNSS has been preferred by the petitioner being aggrieved by the order dated 02. 06. 2024 passed by the trial Court whereby her application under Section 319 of the Cr. P. C. has been rejected. As per the prosecution, on 18. 02. 2019 a complaint was lodged by the petitioner to the effect that she is residing at her house along with her husband and son and his three children. On 09. 02. 2019 her son had come home and had fallen ill. She had called her daughter and son-in-law to her home for his treatment. On seeing them his son beat them and abused her. He also beat his children and stated that he shall take them with him to Banglore and if he is stopped he shall kill them. On the basis of the complaint lodged by the petitioner investigation was commenced during the course of which statements of children of the accused were recorded in which they stated that their father has been responsible for the death of their mother and he had not given her proper treatment. After that he has been touching them with a bad touch and has been committing various heinous acts with them. He used to get females from his office at home. He always used to drink and make them sleep with him in the bed. Various other allegations as regards unnatural sexual advances were made. On the basis of the complaint and the investigation FIR was registered against the accused and the matter was proceeded with. After completion of the investigation charge-sheet has been filed before the Court concerned. During proceedings before the trial Court the petitioner filed an application under Section 319 of the Cr. P. C. for impleading one Sanjeev Ameen also as an accused in the case. It was submitted that in the statements of the minor children (victims) recorded by the Child Welfare Committee, Indore name of Sanjeev Ameen had been clearly revealed. In their statement under Section 164 of the Cr. P. C. also and in evidence before the trial Court his name has been specifically mentioned by the victims. The application was contested by the accused and has been rejected by the trial Court by the impugned order primarily on the ground that in the complaint and her statement the petitioner had not stated anything against Sanjeev Ameen. The victims had also not made any such statement. Earlier a complaint was preferred by the petitioner against Sanjeev Ameen which was dismissed with liberty that in case it is found during investigation that he has committed any offence he may be impleaded as an accused or the petitioner may file a separate complaint. Thereafter charge-sheet has been filed before the Court in which he has not been made an accused. The application has been preferred belatedly. As per Section 319 of the Cr. P. C. it is not only during course of inquiry but also during course of trial that a person may be impleaded as an accused and be proceeded with if it appears that he has committed any offence for which he could be tried together with the already impleaded accused. The trial Court has relied upon the proceedings prior to filing of the chargesheet and during investigation which were not relevant. If earlier a complaint had been filed by the petitioner which had been dismissed with observations and liberty, that did not preclude the power of the Court to array any person as an accused if during trial it appeared that he had committed any offence. The liberty granted to the petitioner earlier would not arrest the power of the Court so also the reason that the investigating agency has not chosen to implead Sanjeev Ameen as an accused. The impleadment can be done during course of trial hence the ground of delay in rejecting the application does not hold good. It is not to be seen as to whether the person sought to be made an accused has not been named initially but it has to be seen as to whether there is any material showing his involvement at any stage. Reliance by the trial Court on the initial complaint made by the petitioner, application made by her to the Police Station and the omission of the victims to name Sanjeev Ameen in their statements under Section 161 of the Cr. P. C. were hence wholly irrelevant. In the statement given by them under Section 164 of the Cr. P. C. they had specifically named him. In the letter dated 06. 03. 2019 written by Child Welfare Committee also the allegations as leveled by the victims against Sanjeev Ameen were mentioned. Despite that if the prosecution has not arrayed him as an accused it did not denude the trial Court of its power for directing his impleadment as an accused. In his statement recorded before the trial Court as PW-1, the victim No. 1, who is son of the present accused, has clearly stated that the accused used to come drunk at night and used to beat him and her sisters and used to do dirty acts with him and her sisters. He clearly stated that along with him his friend Sanjeev Ameen also used to come home and used to touch him in an inappropriate manner and also used to touch his private part. There is hence clear statement by one of the victims as regards the criminal act having been committed by Sanjeev Ameen. This in itself was sufficient for him to be impleaded as an accused. The trial Court in view of the statement ought to have itself made him an accused in the case but it did not do so and when application was preferred by the petitioner for the said purpose has dismissed the same on wholly irrelevant considerations. In view of categoric statement of one of the victims impleadment of Sanjeev Ameen as an accused is legally warranted and imperative in the matter. As a result of the aforesaid discussion, in my opinion, the trial Court has erred in rejecting the application under Section 319 of the Cr. P. C. preferred by the petitioner. The impugned order dated 02. 06. 2024 passed by it is set aside and the application preferred by the petitioner stands allowed. The trial Court is directed to proceed further in accordance with law. The petition is accordingly allowed and disposed off.

[case 55]
Deepu B @ Kuttan vs State Of Kerala Represented By Public Prosecutor on 21 August, 2020. This Bail Application filed under Section 439 of Criminal Procedure Code was heard through Video Conference. The Petitioner is the accused in Crime No. 263 of 2020 of Hosdurg Police Station, Kasargod District. The above case is registered against the petitioner alleging offences punishable under Section 376AB of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) r/w. Sections 6 r/w 5(m)(n) of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act). The petitioner is in custody from 20. 6. 2020 onwards. The prosecution case is that, on 1. 4. 2020, the accused sexually abused a minor girl aged 4  years by touching the genital organ of the victim. It is the case of the defacto complainant, the mother of the victim girl that, the child complained about a pain on her private parts and when the defacto complainant enquired about the same, the child disclosed to the defacto complainant that the petitioner committed the above activities. The alleged incident happened on 1. 4. 2020. The F. I. statement was given on 12. 5. 2020. The petitioner was arrested on 20. 6. 2020. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned public prosecutor. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that, the petitioner is innocent in this case. The counsel submitted that, this is a false case foisted against the petitioner by the mother of the victim. The counsel submitted that, there is some difference of opinion between the defacto complainant and her husband. The petitioner is a close relative of the husband of the defacto complainant. The counsel submitted that, the petitioner supported the husband of the defacto complainant when there was a dispute between the defacto complainant and her husband. According to the petitioner, at that time, the defacto complainant threatened that, she will foist a false case against the petitioner. The counsel submitted that, the husband of the defacto complainant filed an affidavit before this Court. The counsel submitted that, in the affidavit, it is stated by the father of the victim, who is the husband of the defacto complainant that, this is a false case foisted against the petitioner. The father of the victim clearly stated that the petitioner is innocent in this case. The learned public prosecutor seriously opposed this bail application. The public prosecutor submitted that the allegations against the petitioner are very serious. The allegation is that, the petitioner committed sexual assault on a minor girl aged 4  years. The public prosecutor submitted that the petitioner is not entitled orders under Section 439 Cr. P. C. at this stage. After hearing both sides, I think, this bail application can be allowed, on stringent conditions. Admittedly, the petitioner is in custody from 20. 6. 2020 onwards. The alleged incident happened on 1. 4. 2020 and the F. I. statement was given only on 12. 5. 2020. Admittedly, there is some matrimonial dispute between the defact complainant and her husband. It is also an admitted fact that, the petitioner is a close relative of the husband of the defact complainant. It is true that, an affidavit is filed by the father of the victim girl exonerating the petitioner from the allegation. I do not want to make any observation about the contents in the affidavit at this stage. This is a matter to be investigated by the investigating officer. Considering the entire facts and circumstances of this case, I think, this bail application can be allowed on stringent conditions. There can be a direction to the petitioner not to enter the jurisdictional limit of Hosdurg Police Station till a final report in Crime No. 263 of 2020 of Hosdurg Police Station, is filed. Moreover, considering the need to follow social distancing norms inside prisons so as to avert the spread of the novel Corona Virus Pandemic, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Re: Contagion of COVID-19 Virus In Prisons case (Suo Motu Writ Petition(C) No. 1 of 2020) and a Full Bench of this Court in W. P(C)No. 9400 of 2020 issued various salutary directions for minimizing the number of inmates inside prisons. Moreover, it is a well accepted principle that, the bail is the rule and the jail is the exception. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Chidambaram P. v. Directorate of Enforcement observed that, the basic jurisprudence relating to bail remains the same inasmuch as the grant of bail is the rule and refusal is the exception so as to ensure that the accused has the opportunity of securing fair trial. Considering the dictum laid down in the above decision and considering the facts and circumstances of this case, this Bail Application is allowed with the following directions: 1. The petitioner shall be released on bail on executing a bond for Rs. 50, 000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand only) with two solvent sureties each for the like sum to the satisfaction of the jurisdictional Court; 2. The petitioner shall appear before the Investigating Officer for interrogation as and when required. The petitioner shall co-operate with the investigation and shall not, directly or indirectly make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or to any police officer; 3. The petitioner shall not leave India without permission of the jurisdictional Court; 4. The petitioner shall not commit an offence similar to the offence of which he is accused, or suspected, of the commission of which he is suspected; 5. The petitioner shall not enter the jurisdictional limit of Hosdurg Police Station, except for the purposes mentioned above, till a final report in Crime No. 263 of 2020 of Hosdurge Police Station is filed. 6. The petitioner shall strictly abide by the various guidelines issued by the State Government and Central Government with respect to keeping of social distancing in the wake of Covid 19 pandemic; 7. If any of the above conditions are violated by the petitioner, the jurisdictional Court can cancel the bail in accordance to law, even though the bail is granted by this Court. Sd/- P. V. KUNHIKRISHNAN JUDGE

[case 56]
Xxxxxx vs State Of Kerala on 6 February, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE C. S. SUDHA Thursday, the 6th day of February 2025 / 17th Magha, 1946 CRL. M. APPL. NO. 1/2022 IN CRL. A NO. 907 OF 2022 SC 35/2017 OF THE (FAST TRACK) SPECIAL COURT, THRISSUR PETITIONERS/APPELLANT: XXX RESPONDENT/RESPONDENT: STATE OF KERALA REPRESENTED BY THE PUBLIC PROCECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, KOCHIN, PIN - 682031. Application praying that in the circumstances stated therein the High Court be pleased to suspend the sentence in SC No. 35/2017 on the files of the Special Judge's Court (POCSO), Thrissur. If the sentence is not so suspended, the petitioner would be put to irreparable injuries and hardships. On the other hand, no prejudice will be caused to any of the respondent if the sentence is so suspended. This Application coming on for orders upon perusing the application and upon hearing the arguments of M/S. SARATH BABU KOTTAKKAL, REBIN VINCENT GRALAN, Advocates for the petitioner and of PUBLIC PROSECUTOR for the respondent, the court passed the following: C. S. SUDHA, J. -------------------------------------------------------------- Crl. M. Appl. No. 1 of 2022 in Crl. Appeal No. 907 of 2022 --------------------------------------------------------------- Dated this the 6th day of February 2025 ORDER This application under Section 389 Cr. P. C. has been filed seeking suspension of sentence of the applicant/accused in S. C. No. 35 of 2017 on the file of the Special Judge's Court (PoCSO), Thrissur. He has been found guilty of the offences punishable under Sections 6 read with 5(l) and (m) of the PoCSO Act and Sections 342 and 376(2)(i) IPC. He has been sentenced to varying terms of imprisonment for the aforesaid offences. The sentences have been directed to run concurrently. The maximum period of imprisonment he will have to undergo is 20 years. It is submitted by the learned counsel for the applicant/accused that there are several inconsistencies in the statements as well as in the testimony of PW2, the victim, as well as PW1, her mother who had given Ext. P1 FIS. It is pointed out that the case of penetrative sexual assault is not supported by the medical evidence. It is also pointed out that there is no consistent evidence relating to the date of the alleged incident. In addition to the aforesaid aspects, it is also pointed out that the applicant/accused is a 75 year old man suffering from Hydrocele and Bradycardia and that he requires surgery. Earlier, he was granted interim bail for a period of one month for the purpose of undergoing surgery. However, as his blood pressure could not be brought under control, the surgery could not take place and hence on medical grounds also the suspension is sought for. The learned public prosecutor opposes the application and submits that the victim child, who was only 10 years old, has clearly deposed before the court that she was unable to recall the date on which the incidents of abuse took place. However, she has clearly deposed that on three different occasions, the accused herein had committed digital rape on her. This probably must be the reason why she was unable to recollect the exact dates on which the incident took place. The learned public prosecutor also draws my attention to the testimony of PW4, a consultant pediatrician, Sun Hospital, Thrissur, to substantiate the argument that the medical evidence is also there to support the prosecution story. Heard both sides. I was taken through Ext. P1 FIS as well as the testimony of PW2, the victim; PW1, the mother and PW9, the doctor who examined the victim child on 24/11/2016. Ext. P1 FIS is seen given by the mother on 24/11/2016. In the FIS, the allegation is that the incident of abuse took place on 22/11/2016. According to the testimony of PW1, the mother, the incident took place on 24/11/2016 and it was on the same day she had taken PW2 to the hospital as she had seen injuries on the private parts as well as a hair inside the mouth of PW2. However PW9, the doctor who examined the child on 24/11/2016 in Ext. P6 medical certificate records that there was no external injury. As far as the testimony of PW4 is concerned, it is seen that there are absolutely no records to support his testimony that he had examined the child sometime in November 2016. It is also brought to my notice that the victim child had stated in her 161 statement that the incident took place on 23/11/2016 whereas in her chief examination, her testimony was that the incident took place on 22/11/2016. This contradiction was brought out in her examination and proved through the testimony of PW6 and the same has been marked as Ext. D2. On going through the testimony of the material prosecution witnesses, I think that the learned counsel for the applicant/accused is justified in arguing that there are inconsistencies in the testimonies and that doubts arise from the materials on record. It appears that the applicant/accused has got a good arguable case and therefore in the aforesaid circumstances and on medical ground, the sentence of the applicant/accused is suspended till the disposal of the appeal. It is submitted that the fine amount has already been deposited before the trial court. Hence, the sentence imposed on the applicant/accused is suspended on the following conditions: i) The applicant/accused shall be released on bail on executing a bond for 50, 000/- (Rupees fifty thousand only) with two solvent sureties each for the like sum to the satisfaction of the trial court; ii) He shall not in any way contact or attempt to contact the victim or family member(s) in any manner; iii) He shall not commit any offence(s) while on bail; iv) If the conviction and sentence of the applicant is upheld or even modified, the time during which he is so released shall be excluded in computing the term of his sentence as provided in Section 430(4) BNSS; v) It is also made clear that if any of the conditions are violated, the bail shall stand cancelled. Post on 27/10/2025. Sd/- C. S. SUDHA JUDGE Jms 06-02-2025 /True Copy/ Assistant Registrar

[case 57]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Manju Shrivastava vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 16 January, 2025. This revision under Section 438 read with Section 442 of the BNSS has been preferred by the petitioner being aggrieved by the order dated 02. 06. 2024 passed by the trial Court whereby her application under Section 319 of the Cr. P. C. has been rejected. As per the prosecution, on 18. 02. 2019 a complaint was lodged by the petitioner to the effect that she is residing at her house along with her husband and son and his three children. On 09. 02. 2019 her son had come home and had fallen ill. She had called her daughter and son-in-law to her home for his treatment. On seeing them his son beat them and abused her. He also beat his children and stated that he shall take them with him to Banglore and if he is stopped he shall kill them. On the basis of the complaint lodged by the petitioner investigation was commenced during the course of which statements of children of the accused were recorded in which they stated that their father has been responsible for the death of their mother and he had not given her proper treatment. After that he has been touching them with a bad touch and has been committing various heinous acts with them. He used to get females from his office at home. He always used to drink and make them sleep with him in the bed. Various other allegations as regards unnatural sexual advances were made. On the basis of the complaint and the investigation FIR was registered against the accused and the matter was proceeded with. During proceedings before the trial Court the petitioner filed an application under Section 319 of the Cr. P. C. for impleading one Sanjeev Ameen also as an accused in the case. It was submitted that in the statements of the minor children (victims) recorded by the Child Welfare Committee, Indore name of Sanjeev Ameen had been clearly revealed. In their statement under Section 164 of the Cr. P. C. also and in evidence before the trial Court his name has been specifically mentioned by the victims. The application was contested by the accused and has been rejected by the trial Court by the impugned order primarily on the ground that in the complaint and her statement the petitioner had not stated anything against Sanjeev Ameen. The victims had also not made any such statement. Earlier a complaint was preferred by the petitioner against Sanjeev Ameen which was dismissed with liberty that in case it is found during investigation that he has committed any offence he may be impleaded as an accused or the petitioner may file a separate complaint. Thereafter charge-sheet has been filed before the Court in which he has not been made an accused. The application has been preferred belatedly. As per Section 319 of the Cr. P. C. it is not only during course of inquiry but also during course of trial that a person may be impleaded as an accused and be proceeded with if it appears that he has committed any offence for which he could be tried together with the already impleaded accused. The trial Court has relied upon the proceedings prior to filing of the chargesheet and during investigation which were not relevant. If earlier a complaint had been filed by the petitioner which had been dismissed with observations and liberty, that did not preclude the power of the Court to array any person as an accused if during trial it appeared that he had committed any offence. The liberty granted to the petitioner earlier would not arrest the power of the Court so also the reason that the investigating agency has not chosen to implead Sanjeev Ameen as an accused. The impleadment can be done during course of trial hence the ground of delay in rejecting the application does not hold good. It is not to be seen as to whether the person sought to be made an accused has not been named initially but it has to be seen as to whether there is any material showing his involvement at any stage. Reliance by the trial Court on the initial complaint made by the petitioner, application made by her to the Police Station and the omission of the victims to name Sanjeev Ameen in their statements under Section 161 of the Cr. P. C. were hence wholly irrelevant. In the statement given by them under Section 164 of the Cr. P. C. they had specifically named him. In the letter dated 06. 03. 2019 written by Child Welfare Committee also the allegations as leveled by the victims against Sanjeev Ameen were mentioned. Despite that if the prosecution has not arrayed him as an accused it did not denude the trial Court of its power for directing his impleadment as an accused. In his statement recorded before the trial Court as PW-1, the victim No. 1, who is son of the present accused, has clearly stated that the accused used to come drunk at night and used to beat him and her sisters and used to do dirty acts with him and her sisters. He clearly stated that along with him his friend Sanjeev Ameen also used to come home and used to touch him in an inappropriate manner and also used to touch his private part. There is hence clear statement by one of the victims as regards the criminal act having been committed by Sanjeev Ameen. This in itself was sufficient for him to be impleaded as an accused. The trial Court in view of the statement ought to have itself made him an accused in the case but it did not do so and when application was preferred by the petitioner for the said purpose has dismissed the same on wholly irrelevant considerations. In view of categoric statement of one of the victims impleadment of Sanjeev Ameen as an accused is legally warranted and imperative in the matter. As a result of the aforesaid discussion, in my opinion, the trial Court has erred in rejecting the application under Section 319 of the Cr. P. C. preferred by the petitioner. The impugned order dated 02. 06. 2024 passed by it is set aside and the application preferred by the petitioner stands allowed. The trial Court is directed to proceed further in accordance with law. The petition is accordingly allowed and disposed off.

[case 58]
Karnataka High Court Gumabai vs The State Of Karnataka And Ors on 13 January, 2025 Author: S. Vishwajith Shetty Bench: S. Vishwajith Shetty -1- NC: 2025: KHC-K: 147 CRL. P No. 201425 of 2024 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA, KALABURAGI BENCH DATED THIS THE 13TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2025 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE S. VISHWAJITH SHETTY CRIMINAL PETITION NO. 201425 OF 2024 (439(2)(Cr. PC)/483(3)(BNSS) ) BETWEEN: GUMABAI W/O KAMU RATHOD, AGE: 65 YEARS, OCC: HOUSEHOLD, R/O. NIMBAL LT, TQ. INDI, DIST. VIJAYAPURA -586101. .. .PETITIONER (BY SRI SHIVANAND V. PATTANASHETTI, ADVOCATE) AND: 1. THE STATE OF KARNATAKA THROUGH, INDI RURAL POLICE STATION, DIST. VIJAYAPURA-586101. Digitally signed by SHILPA R TENIHALLI Location: HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA 2. PRAKASH S/O RAMU CHAVAN, AGE: 52 YEARS, OCC: TEACHER (GOVT). 3. MEERABAI @ MEENAXI W/O PRAKASH CHAVAN, AGE: 52 YEARS, OCC: COOLIE, BOTH ARE R/O. ALUR L. T NO. 2, TQ. INDI, DIST. VIJAYAPURA - 586101. .. RESPONDENTS (BY SMT. MAYA T. R. , HCGP FOR R1 SRI SANJAY A. PATIL, ADVOCATE FOR R2 AND R3) THIS CRL. P. IS FILED U/S. 439 (2) OF CR. P. C(OLD), U/S 483 (3) OF BNSS (NEW), PRAYING TO, A) ALLOW THE PETITION AND THEREBY CANCEL/SET ASIDE THE IMPUGNED ANTICIPATORY BAIL ORDER DATED 08-10-2024 PASSED BY II ADDITIONAL DISTRICT AND SESSIONS JUDGE, VIJAYAPURA IN CRL. MISC NO. 1421/2024 CONSEQUENTLY DIRECT THE CONCERNED POLICE TO ARREST THE RESPONDENT NO. 2 AND 3 IN INDI RURAL PS FIR (CRIME NO. 177/2024 FOR THE OFFENCES PUNISHABLE U/SEC. 85, 103 (1), 80 R/W 3(5) OF BNS-2023. B) PASS ANY SUCH ORDER OR DIRECTIONS AS DEEMED FIT BY THIS HON'BLE HIGH COURT UNDER THE FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE CASE. THIS PETITION, COMING ON FOR ORDERS, THIS DAY, ORDER WAS MADE THEREIN AS UNDER: CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE S. VISHWAJITH SHETTY ORAL ORDER (PER: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE S. VISHWAJITH SHETTY) 1. This petition under Section 439(2) of Cr. P. C. , is filed by the de facto complainant with the prayer to cancel the anticipatory bail granted to accused Nos. 2 and 3 in Crime No. 177/2024, registered by Indi Rural Police Station for the offenses punishable under Sections 85, 103(1), 80 read with Section 3(5) of Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita Act, 2023 and Sections 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 by the Court of II Additional District and Session Judge, Vijayapura in Criminal Misc. No. 1421/2024. 2. Heard the learned counsel for the parties. 3. FIR in Crime No. 177/2024, was registered by Indi Rural Police Station, Vijayapura, for the offenses punishable under Sections 85, 103(1), 80, read with Section 3(5) of Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita Act, 2023 on the basis of the first information dated 31. 07. 2024 received by Smt. Gumabai, mother of deceased Reshma as against Vikram and the respondent Nos. 2 and 3 herein who are the parents of accused No. 1 Vikram. Apprehending their arrest in said case, the respondent Nos. 2 and 3 herein had filed Criminal Misc. No. 1421/2024 before the II Additional District and Sessions Judge, Vijayapura, which was allowed on 08. 10. 2024 and the respondent Nos. 2 and 3 herein were granted anticipatory bail subject to certain conditions. Investigation of the case is completed and the charge sheet has been filed. Being aggrieved by the anticipatory bail granted to accused Nos. 2 and 3, the de facto complainant is before this Court 4. Perusal of the averments made in the first information dated 31. 07. 2024 would reveal that, the marriage of accused No. 1 who is the son of the respondent Nos. 2 and 3 herein, with the daughter of the first informant was performed in the year 2021 and from the said wedlock the couple had a child. On 30. 07. 2024, the accused No. 1 had informed the first informant that, Reshma had suffered low blood pressure and had died. On 31. 07. 2024 the first informant and her family members had gone to the house of accused No. 1 and had found the dead body of their daughter Reshma inside the compound wall of a school near Aluru Tanda, within the jurisdiction of Indi Rural Police Station. Since the first informant suspected with regard to the cause of death of her daughter, she had approached the police and had submitted first information, based on which an FIR was registered against Vikram and the respondent Nos. 2 and 3 herein. The police after investigation have filed charge-sheet against three persons. Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 have been arraigned as accused Nos. 2 and 3 in the charge-sheet. As per the charge-sheet allegations, on 30. 07. 2024, at about 7: 30 pm, when accused No. 1 and his wife Reshma were traveling in a car along with their child aged about six months, they had fought against each other and accused No. 1 - Vikram had made a demand with his wife to bring a sum of Rs. 5, 00, 000/- from her parents house. When the car in which accused No. 1 and his wife were traveling reached near Indi railway station, all of a sudden accused No. 1 got down from the car and after abusing his wife, with the help of a plastic cover which was in the hind seat of the car, he had strangulated the neck of his wife and had committed her murder. Thereafter, he drove the car to his parents' house and informed them that his wife had died as a result of low blood pressure and as per the advice of his parents he had left the dead body inside the compound wall of the school. Except this, there is no other allegation as against the parents of accused No. 1 who are respondent Nos. 2 and 3 in the present petition. Accused No. 2 is a teacher in a Government School and accused No. 3 who is his wife is a House maker. The learned Session Judge having appreciated all these aspects of the matter, has granted anticipatory bail to them and in compliance of the bail conditions they had appeared before the Investigating Officer and have co-operated with him for the purpose of investigation. 5. Under the circumstances, I do not find any good ground to interfere with the order of anticipatory bail granted to accused Nos. 2 and 3 in the present case. Accordingly, the following order: ORDER The criminal petition is dismissed. Sd/- (S. VISHWAJITH SHETTY) JUDGE SVH List No. : 1 Sl No. : 9 CT: PK

[case 59]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED 03. 07. 2018 CORAM THE HONOURABLE Mr. JUSTICE P. N. PRAKASH CRL. O. P. No. 16922 of 2018 and CRL. M. P. No. 8740 of 2018 Damodaran. . Petitioner Vs State by The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Ayanavaram, Chennai-23. .. Respondent Criminal Original Petition filed under Section 482 Cr. P. C. , praying to call for the entire records connected with the order in Crl. M. P. No. 7906 of 2018 in S. C. No. 226 of 2016 dated 21. 05. 2018 passed by the Mahila Court, Chennai insofar as dismissing the petition under Section 311 Cr. P. C. for cross-examination of PW2, PW8 and PW9 and direct the Mahila Judge, Chennai permitting the petitioner to cross-examine PW2, PW8 and PW9. For Petitioner: Mr. B. Janakiram For Respondent: Ms. P. Kritika Kamal, GA [Crl. Side] O R D E R This Criminal Original Petition has been filed praying to set aside the order dated 21. 05. 2018, passed by the learned Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Chennai in Crl. M. P. No. 7906 of 2016 in S. C. No. 226 of 2016. 2. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned Government Advocate [Crl. Side] appearing for the respondent. 3. On the complaint lodged by Regina Mary that her six year old daughter[x] was sexually abused by the petitioner herein, the respondent Police registered a case in Crime No. 9 of 2015 and after completing the investigation, have filed a final report and trial in S. C. No. 226 of 2016 is pending on the file of the Mahila Court, Chennai for various offences under POCSO Act. Charges were framed against the petitioner/accused and the prosecution witnesses were examined. The victim girl-x was examined as PW2 on 09. 02. 2017. She was not cross-examined by the accused. The prosecution examined 11 witnesses, who were not cross-examined by the accused. After 1= years, the accused filed Crl. M. P. No. 7906 of 2018 in S. C. No. 226 of 2016 under Section 311 Cr. P. C. to recall PW1 to PW11, which has been partly allowed by the trial Court. Challenging which, the accused is before this Court. 4. On a reading of the impugned order, it is seen that the trial Court has refused permission to recall the victim girl-x [PW2]. But, whereas, the trial Court has ordered the recall of PW1, PW3 to PW7, PW10 and PW11. 5. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that a false case has been foisted on the accused and therefore, it is necessary for the accused to recall the victim girl-x and the two Doctors, namely, PW8 and PW9, who have examined the victim girl and the accused. He placed strong reliance on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Mannan SK and Others Vs State of West Bengal and Another, wherein, the Supreme Court has held as follows: The second part of the Section uses the word 'shall'. It says that the court shall summon and examine or recall or re-examine any such person if his evidence appears to it to be essential to the just decision of the case. The words 'essential to the just decision of the case' are the key words. The court must form an opinion that for the just decision of the case recall or re-examination of the witness is necessary. Since the power is wide it's exercise has to be done with circumspection. It is trite that wider the power greater is the responsibility on the courts which exercise it. .. . 6. This Court gave its anxious consideration to the rival submissions. It is true that power under Section 311 Cr. P. C. can be invoked at any time before the judgment is delivered, if it is found that the evidence of a particular witness is just and essential. In this case, the victim girl was examined on 09. 02. 2017. She was not cross-examined by the counsel. 7. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the earlier counsel had bungled and therefore, on change of counsel, an opportunity should be given to recall the victim girl. Section 33[5] of the POCSO Act states that a child witness should not be called repeatedly to the Court for the purpose of examination. The idea behind this provision is that a child will suffer psychological trauma, if she is made to repeat the ordeal that was undergone by her. In this case, the victim is a nine year old girl. Proviso to Section 309 Cr. P. C. reads as follows: [b] the fact that the Pleader of a party is engaged in any other Court, shall not be a ground for adjournment. Thus, the statute says that just because the pleader of a party is engaged in another Court, that cannot be a ground for adjournment. It will be a travesty of justice to overlook Section 309 Cr. P. C. and Section 33[5] of POCSO Act and say that on account of change of counsel, the victim girl should be recalled. 8. As regards PW8 and PW9, they are Government Doctors, whose time is indeed precious. In Vinodh Kumar Vs State of Punjab reported in 2015[1] MLJ [Crl] 288, the Supreme Court has taken note of the pernicious practice that is prevailing in the trial Courts today, whereby no witness is cross-examined on the day they are examined in-chief, they recalled after several days and in the meantime, they are either intimidated or won over. 9. In Mannan S. K. case relied upon by the learned counsel for the accused, the prosecution wanted to recall the Investigating Officer, who had recorded the statement of the deceased at the scene of the offence. Since the statement of the deceased is relevant as dying declaration under Section 32 of the Evidence Act, the Supreme Court thought it fit, not to shut out such a valuable piece of evidence. 10. In A. G. Vs Shiv Kumar Yadav reported in 2015[9] Scale 649, the Supreme Court has stated that a petition under Section 311 Cr. P. C. cannot be allowed, on the mere asking even if the accused is in judicial custody. The reasons given by the accused to recall PW2, PW8 and PW9 does not pass muster, the law laid down by the Supreme Court in Vinodh Kumar's case and A. G. Vs Shiv Kumar Yadav's case. Under such circumstances, this Court does not find any infirmity in the order passed by the trial Court warranting interference and this petition stands dismissed. Consequently, connected Miscellaneous Petition is closed.

[case 60]
Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month.
Punjab-Haryana High Court
Rakesh Kumar vs State Of Haryana on 5 September, 2018
Author: H. S. Madaan
Bench: H. S. Madaan
CRM-M-34093-2018 -1-
IN THE HIGH COURT OF PUNJAB AND HARYANA AT
CRM-M-34093-2018
Date of decision: -5. 9. 2018
State of Haryana
CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE H. S. MADAAN
Present: Mr. Karan Singh, Advocate
for the petitioner.
Mr. Gaurav Bansal, AAG, Haryana.
Mr. G. C. Shahpuri, Advocate
for the complainant.
H. S. MADAAN, J.
This petition under Section 438 Cr. P. C. for pre-arrest bail has
been filed by the petitioner - Rakesh Kumar, an accused in FIR No. 30
dated 6. 7. 2018 under Section 8 of POCSO Act and 216 IPC, registered at
Women Police Station, Yamuna Nagar.
Briefly stated, the facts of the case, as per the prosecution
story, are that on 29. 12. 2017 when the prosecutrix aged about 16 years
had gone to her BARA from her house at village Dhaurang, District
Yamuna Nagar, then Rakesh son of Subhash (present petitioner) resident
of that very village misbehaved with her catching hold of arm of
prosecutrix. The prosecutrix narrated the entire story to her parents, then
police was informed by moving a written application at Women Police
Station, Yamuna Nagar at Jagadhri.
Apprehending his arrest in this case, the petitioner had
approached the Court of Sessions seeking grant of pre-arrest bail by filing
an application, however, his such request was declined by learned
Additional Sessions Judge (Exclusive Court for Heinous Crimes against
Women and Children), Yamuna Nagar at Jagadhri vide order dated
2. 8. 2018. As such, the petitioner has approached this Court asking for
the same relief.
Notice of the petition was given to respondent - State, which
put in appearance through counsel. The complainant has also appeared
through counsel.
I have heard learned counsel for the parties besides going
through the record and I do not find any merit in the present petition.
Learned counsel for the petitioner has argued that as a matter
of fact on 29. 12. 2017, the complainant Subhash Chand and his family
members had attacked family of petitioner causing injuries to them and on
that very day, Smt. Parveena wife of Mahinder Kumar had submitted a
complaint to SHO, Police Station Sadar, Yamuna Nagar regarding the
incident on which DDR No. 7 dated 30. 12. 2017 was entered in daily diary
and the present FIR is just a counter-blast to the complaint dated
29. 12. 2017 against family members of the complainant.
Whereas, learned State counsel and learned counsel for the
complainant submitted that the incident as per FIR in this case took place
on 29. 12. 2017. Admittedly, no action has been taken on the alleged
complaint submitted by Smt. Parveena regarding Subhash Chand and his
family allegedly attacking family of the petitioner and causing injuries to
them. If the police had found merit in the allegations observing that
commission of cognizable offence was disclosed, then FIR would have
normally been registered, which was not so done, rather it appears that the
DDR in question was lodged to create defence in the present FIR as a
pressure tactic and to set up a parallel case.
After hearing the rival contentions of learned counsel for the
parties, I find that the incidents of child abuse and molestation of young
girls are increasing day by day. It is not safe for the womenfolk to venture
out of their houses even. A serious law and order problem in that regard is
fast emerging. In case precautionary measures are not taken at the initial
stage, the things may get out of hand and would be very difficult to
control. The persons harassing molesting and sexually abusing young girls
need to be dealt with iron hand and no leniency can be shown to them.
Here the allegations against the petitioner are quite serious and grave. Pre
arrest bail is a discretionary relief and is to be granted in exceptional cases
and not in routine. It is meant to save the innocent persons from
harassment and inconvenience and not to screen the culprits from
custodial interrogation.
Custodial interrogation of the petitioner is definitely required
for complete and effective investigation. In case custodial interrogation of
the petitioner is denied to the investigating agency that would leave many
loose ends and gaps in the investigation affecting the investigation being
carried out adversely which is not called for.
Thus finding no merit in the petition, the same stands
5. 9. 2018 (H. S. MADAAN)
Brij JUDGE
Whether reasoned/speaking: Yes/No
Whether reportable: Yes/No

[case 61]
Mohd. Aleem, vs The State Oftelangana, on 13 September, 2022. The petitioners claim to be the joint owners of Plot No. 64, admeasuring 267 sq. yards situated in Sy. No. 844/16 forming part of Annapurna Cooperative Housing Society Limited, Malkajgiri, Ranga Reddy District, having purchased the same under registered sale deed dated 29. 09. 2010. Subsequently the petitioners constructed Ground plus Three floors (G+3) by obtaining permission from GHMC and the property was assessed with H. No. 17-119/A64. The petitioners had been staying in the ground floor of the said building. The petitioners gave first, second and third floor of the building to M/s. Save a Child, a private organization, represented by Sri M. Sunit Kumar, S/o. Christopher, under rental agreement dated 03. 07. 2014 for a period of 11 months. The lease was extended from time to time. While so, the respondent No. 2 addressed a communication dated 22. 06. 2017, along with a copy of a note approved by the Collector, Medchal-Malkajgiri District, stating that sexual abuse has happened on an inmate of 'Save a Child' orphanage by the founder M. Sunit Kumar and in that connection, the District Collector has given instructions to close and seize the movable and immovable property and bank accounts of the orphanage located in the premises of the petitioners. On the instructions of the District Collector, the respondent No. 4 directed the Village Revenue Officer, Malkajgiri, to seize the orphanage, which was being run in the first, second and third floors of the building of the petitioners. Accordingly, three floors were seized on 24. 06. 2017 under cover of panchanma. Learned counsel for the petitioners submitted that the 'Save a Child' orphanage is the tenant of the petitioners. In the process of taking action against the founder of the orphanage, the property of the petitioners could not have been seized. A request was made by the petitioners vide representation dated 08. 10. 2017 to the respondent No. 3 for releasing the seized property. The petitioners have given the property on lease to the orphanage for a monthly rent of Rs. 41, 000/-. The petitioner is put to loss since July 2017. There are several maintenance issues in the property. Learned Assistant Government Pleader for Women Development and Child Welfare Department submitted that the orphanage was seized for violation of the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and the National Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Model Rules, 2016. The petitioners should have checked the registration certificate of the orphanage before giving the property on rent or lease. The petitioners allowed the founder of the orphanage to run a home for children in need of care and protection illegally. The orphanage management did not submit original copies of the rental agreement at the time of inspection. The petitioner did not register the lease deed of the building at the concerned Sub-Registrar. FIR No. 446 of 2017 was registered against Sunith Kumar, in-charge of the orphanage, under Section 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 and under Section 376-C and 506 IPC with L. B. Nagar Police Station. The seized movable and immovable property of the orphanage was kept in the building of the petitioners. As per the orders of the I Additional cum Metropolitan Sessions Judge, L. B. Nagar, action will be taken on the movable and immovable properties. Learned counsel for the petitioners submitted that the petitioners are not the accused in FIR. No. 446 of 2017. The petitioners are only the owners of the subject premises and the seizure is illegal. As such, there is no requirement for the petitioners to approach the concerned Court for release of the premises/property. It is not in dispute that the petitioners are the owners of the property and the orphanage is the tenant. The contention of the learned Assistant Government Pleader that the petitioners should have registered the lease deed and should have checked the antecedents of the orphanage before giving the property on lease is without any merit. The petitioners, being landlords, would only enquire whether the tenant has the capacity to pay the rents and also ensure that illegal activities are not carried out in the tenanted premises. The misuse of the tenanted property by the tenant and that too after the property was taken on lease cannot in any manner be attributed to the petitioners. The petitioners are not involved in the criminal case, so also the petitioners do not have any civil liability for the illegal activities committed by their tenant and as such, the seizure of the premises is ex facie illegal. However, as the property is stated to have been seized pursuant to registration of FIR. No. 446 of 2017, it would be appropriate to dispose of the writ petition with the following directions: 1. The petitioners shall submit an application to the I Additional cum Metropolitan Sessions Judge, L. B. Nagar, seeking release of the subject premises, seized by the Village Revenue Officer, on the directions of the respondent No. 4 on 24. 06. 2017 under the cover of panchanama. 2. The application filed by the petitioners shall be considered and appropriate orders shall be passed forthwith by the I Additional cum Metropolitan Sessions Judge, L. B. Nagar, releasing the subject premises of the petitioners by imposing reasonable conditions. 3. The documents, movable properties, articles etc. of the orphanage viz. Save a Child, shall be forthwith shifted by concerned police with due intimation to the I Additional District Judge cum Metropolitan Sessions Judge, L. B. Nagar and the same shall be kept in the custody of the police station or the Court or any other safe place in accordance with law. If necessary, permission of the Court shall be taken by the police for shifting the documents, movable properties, articles etc. The miscellaneous petitions pending, if any, shall stand closed. There shall be no order as to costs.

[case 62]
CRR No. 2085 of 2016 (O&M) Date of Decision: July 17, 2018 Dharambir. .. Petitioner Versus State of Haryana and another. .. Respondents CORAM: - HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE JAISHREE THAKUR Present: - Mr. S. S. Momi, Advocate for the petitioner. Mr. P. P. Chahar, DAG Haryana. Mr. J. S. Mehndiratta, Advocate for respondents No. 2 and 3. This is a criminal revision filed against the order dated 13. 05. 2016 passed by the Additional Sessions Judge, Sonepat, where the application filed by the petitioner-complainant under Section 216 of Code of Criminal Procedure for amendment in the charges, by way of framing the charge under Section 305 of Indian Penal Code instead of 306 of IPC and for further framing the charge under Section 376 of IPC and Sections 6, 8, 12 of the POCSO Act read with Section 120-B of IPC against the accused persons, has been dismissed. In short, the facts of the case are that FIR No. 452 dated 05. 09. 2015 came to be registered under Section 306 read with Section 34 of IPC at Police Station Sadar, Sonipat against respondents No. 2 and 3 herein on the complaint of petitioner-complainant that on 05. 09. 2015 at around 05. 00 his daughter Deepika committed suicide due to threatening given by Hanni and his mother Suman (respondents No. 2 and 3 herein). It was also alleged that when his daughter went to South Point School tour to Delhi, accused Hanni also reached there and did obscene act with his daughter. When his daughter Deepika returned back, she disclosed this incident to her mother, on which they narrated this matter to Hanni's family, but instead of rebuking her son, Hanni's mother insulted Deepika. Hanni's mother also went to South Point School and insulted his daughter Deepika. Deepika was very upset with the behaviour of Hanni and his mother Suman, compelling her to the extreme step of committing suicide. During the course of investigation, a suicide note was recovered from the lower/trouser worn by the deceased at the time of her death, which was sent to FSL for verification of handwriting of the deceased and as per the report of Forensic Science Laboratory, the handwriting on the suicide note is of the deceased. After completing the investigation, final report under Section 173 Cr. P. C. was filed in the court against respondents No. 2 and 3 under Sections 306/34 of IPC and thereafter, the trial court framed the charges under Sections 306/34 of IPC by an order dated 11. 12. 2015. Thereafter, the petitioner-complainant moved an application under Section 216 Cr. P. C. for amendment of charge on the ground that since the deceased in the instant case was less than 18 years of age, she was a child, and therefore, charge under Section 305 of IPC is required to be framed instead of Section 306 of IPC, but the said application came to be dismissed on 27. 01. 2016. Thereafter, a supplementary challan was filed by the police under Section 173(8) of the Cr. P. C containing documents, birth certificate of Deepika (deceased) and statement of her mother Ishwanti. After that, the petitioner-complainant filed another application under Section 216 of Cr. P. C. for amendment in the charges, by way of framing the charge under Section 305 of IPC instead of 306 of IPC and for further framing the charge under Section 376 of IPC and Sections 6, 8, 12 of the POCSO Act read with Section 120-B of IPC against the accused persons, which application came to be dismissed by the impugned order dated 13. 05. 2016. Mr. S. S. Momi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner argues that it is an admitted fact on the case file the date of birth of deceased Deepika was 09. 11. 2000 and on the date of the occurrence, the deceased was minor, aged about 14 years, at the time when she committed suicide. The age of the deceased is mentioned as 14 years on the postmortem report. It is contended that as per the suicide note, the accused committed 'jabardasti' with the deceased. Meaning thereby, the deceased was molested and sexually abused and as such, charges under Sections 305, 376 of IPC and Sections 6, 8, 12 of POCSO Act read with Section 120-B of IPC are made out against the accused. Mr. J. S. Mehndiratta, learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondents No. 2 and 3 argues that there is nothing on record to amend the charges already framed. It is submitted that the earlier application filed by the learned Public Prosecutor under Section 216 of Cr. P. C. for amendment of charge has already been dismissed by the trial court and the suicide note was already on the file at the time of framing of charges in the present case. I have heard learned counsel for the parties, apart from perusing the record. On the basis of the complaint filed by the petitioner-complainant and the investigation done by the police, final report under Section 173 Cr. P. C. was filed under Section 306 read with Section 34 of IPC. The earlier application moved under Section 216 Cr. P. C. came to be dismissed on 27. 01. 2016 by the trial court, while observing that there is no material pertaining to date of birth of the deceased in the form of birth certificate or in the statement of her father has been found. Thereafter, a supplementary challan came to be filed under Section 173(8) Cr. P. C. containing the date of birth certificate of the deceased. However, the trial court has not said anything about the date of birth certificate of the deceased. The trial court further observed the suicide note prima facie makes out an offence under Section 306 of IPC, although the trial court did not consider the date of birth certificate of the deceased, submitted in the form of supplementary statement. Under these peculiar facts and circumstances, prima facie, at this stage, a case under Section 305 read with Section 34 of IPC is made out against the accused persons and the charge is required to be altered accordingly. In view of the above, the criminal revision in hand is partly allowed and the impugned order passed by the trial court is set aside to the above extent only.

[case 63]
CRR No. 2085 of 2016 (O&M) Date of Decision: July 17, 2018 Dharambir. .. Petitioner Versus State of Haryana and another. .. Respondents CORAM: - HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE JAISHREE THAKUR Present: - Mr. S. S. Momi, Advocate for the petitioner. Mr. P. P. Chahar, DAG Haryana. Mr. J. S. Mehndiratta, Advocate for respondents No. 2 and 3. This is a criminal revision filed against the order dated 13. 05. 2016 passed by the Additional Sessions Judge, Sonepat, where the application filed by the petitioner-complainant under Section 216 of Code of Criminal Procedure for amendment in the charges, by way of framing the charge under Section 305 of Indian Penal Code instead of 306 of IPC and for further framing the charge under Section 376 of IPC and Sections 6, 8, 12 of the POCSO Act read with Section 120-B of IPC against the accused persons, has been dismissed. In short, the facts of the case are that FIR No. 452 dated 05. 09. 2015 came to be registered under Section 306 read with Section 34 of IPC at Police Station Sadar, Sonipat against respondents No. 2 and 3 herein on the complaint of petitioner-complainant that on 05. 09. 2015 at around 05. 00 his daughter Deepika committed suicide due to threatening given by Hanni and his mother Suman (respondents No. 2 and 3 herein). It was also alleged that when his daughter went to South Point School tour to Delhi, accused Hanni also reached there and did obscene act with his daughter. When his daughter Deepika returned back, she disclosed this incident to her mother, on which they narrated this matter to Hanni's family, but instead of rebuking her son, Hanni's mother insulted Deepika. Hanni's mother also went to South Point School and insulted his daughter Deepika. Deepika was very upset with the behaviour of Hanni and his mother Suman, compelling here to the extreme step of committing suicide. During the course of investigation, a suicide note was recovered from the lower/trouser worn by the deceased at the time of her death, which was sent to FSL for verification of handwriting of the deceased and as per the report of Forensic Science Laboratory, the handwriting on the suicide note is of the deceased. After completing the investigation, final report under Section 173 Cr. P. C. was filed in the court against respondents No. 2 and 3 under Sections 306/34 of IPC and thereafter, the trial court framed the charges under Sections 306/34 of IPC by an order dated 11. 12. 2015. Thereafter, the petitioner-complainant moved an application under Section 216 Cr. P. C. for amendment of charge on the ground that since the deceased in the instant case was less than 18 years of age, she was a child, and therefore, charge under Section 305 of IPC is to be framed instead of Section 306 of IPC, but the said application came to be dismissed on 27. 01. 2016. Thereafter, a supplementary challan was filed by the police under Section 173(8) of the Cr. P. C containing documents, birth certificate of Deepika (deceased) and statement of her mother Ishwanti. After that, the petitioner-complainant filed another application under Section 216 of Cr. P. C. for amendment in the charges, by way of framing the charge under Section 305 of IPC instead of 306 of IPC and for further framing the charge under Section 376 of IPC and Sections 6, 8, 12 of the POCSO Act read with Section 120-B of IPC against the accused persons, which application came to be dismissed by the impugned order dated 13. 05. 2016. Mr. S. S. Momi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner argues that it is an admitted fact on the case file the date of birth of deceased Deepika was 09. 11. 2000 and on the date of the occurrence, the deceased was minor, aged about 14 years, at the time when she committed suicide. The age of the deceased is mentioned as 14 years on the postmortem report. It is contended that as per the suicide note, the accused committed 'jabardasti' with the deceased. Meaning thereby, the deceased was molested and sexually abused and as such, charges under Sections 305, 376 of IPC and Sections 6, 8, 12 of POCSO Act read with Section 120-B of IPC are made out against the accused. Mr. J. S. Mehndiratta, learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondents No. 2 and 3 argues that there is nothing on record to amend the charges already framed. It is submitted that the earlier application filed by the learned Public Prosecutor under Section 216 of Cr. P. C. for amendment of charge has already been dismissed by the trial court and the suicide note was already on the file at the time of framing of charges in the present case. I have heard learned counsel for the parties, apart from perusing the record. On the basis of the complaint filed by the petitioner-complainant and the investigation done by the police, final report under Section 173 Cr. P. C. was filed under Section 306 read with Section 34 of IPC. The earlier application moved under Section 216 Cr. P. C. came to be dismissed on 27. 01. 2016 by the trial court, while observing that there is no material pertaining to date of birth of the deceased in the form of birth certificate or in the statement of her father has been found. Thereafter, a supplementary challan came to be filed under Section 173(8) Cr. P. C. containing the date of birth certificate of the deceased. However, the trial court has not said anything about the date of birth certificate of the deceased. The trial court further observed the suicide note prima facie makes out an offence under Section 306 of IPC, although the trial court did not consider the date of birth certificate of the deceased, submitted in the form of supplementary statement. Under these peculiar facts and circumstances, prima facie, at this stage, a case under Section 305 read with Section 34 of IPC is made out against the accused persons and the charge is required to be altered accordingly. In view of the above, the criminal revision in hand is partly allowed and the impugned order passed by the trial court is set aside to the above extent only.

[case 64]
2. Heard Sri Rajiv Kumar Tripathi, learned counsel for the applicant as well as Sri Sunil Kumar, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the record.
3. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 39 of 2024, under Sections 498-A, 304-B, 323, 504, 506 I. P. C. and 3/4 D. P. Act, Police Station- Kailiya, District- Jalaun, during the pendency of trial.
PROSECUTION STORY:
4. The marriage of the applicant was solemnized with the daughter of the informant as per Hindu Rites on 12. 5. 2018. The applicant and other family members are stated to have subjected her to cruelty for demand of a motorcycle as dowry, thereby, leading her to death on 26. 6. 2024.
ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF APPLICANT:
5. The applicant is absolutely innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case.
6. The FIR is delayed by about one day and there is no explanation of the said delay caused. No time of offence is mentioned in the FIR.
7. The informant herein is Panch witness no. 1 in the inquest proceedings, which was undertaken on the information given by the brother of the applicant to the police. The inquest report was already complete on 26. 6. 2024 at 08: 45 p. m.
8. The victim was depressed as she could not bear any child and the applicant had dark complexion.
9. Several other submissions have been made on behalf of the applicant to demonstrate the falsity of the allegations made against him. The circumstances which, as per counsel, led to the false implication of the applicant have also been touched upon at length.
10. There is no criminal history of the applicant. The applicant is languishing in jail since 6. 7. 2024 and is ready to cooperate with trial. In case, the applicant is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail.
ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF STATE/OPPOSITE PARTY:
11. The bail application has been opposed but the submissions raised by the learned counsel for the applicant could not be disputed.
12. In light of the judgement of the Supreme Court passed in Niranjan Singh and another vs Prabhakar Rajaram Kharote and others AIR 1980 SC 785, this Court has avoided detailed examination of the evidence and elaborate documentation of the merits of the case as no party should have the impression that his case has been prejudiced. A prima facie satisfaction of case is needed but it is not the same as an exhaustive exploration of the merits in the order itself.
13. The well-known principle of "Presumption of Innocence Unless Proven Guilty" gives rise to the concept of bail as a rule and imprisonment as an exception.
14. A person's right to life and liberty, guaranteed by Article 21 of the Indian Constitution, cannot be taken away simply because the person is accused of committing an offence until the guilt is established beyond a reasonable doubt. Article 21 of the Indian Constitution states that no one's life or personal liberty may be taken away unless the procedure established by law is followed, and the procedure must be just and reasonable. The said principle has been recapitulated by the Supreme Court in Satender Kumar Antil Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. , 2022 INSC 690.
15. Reiterating the aforesaid view the Supreme Court in the case of Manish Sisodia Vs. Directorate of Enforcement 2024 INSC 595 has again emphasised that the very well-settled principle of law that bail is not to be withheld as a punishment is not to be forgotten. It is high time that the Courts should recognize the principle that bail is a rule and jail is an exception? .
16. Learned AGA could not bring forth any exceptional circumstances which would warrant denial of bail to the applicant.
17. It is settled principle of law that the object of bail is to secure the attendance of the accused at the trial. No material particulars or circumstances suggestive of the applicant fleeing from justice or thwarting the course of justice or creating other troubles in the shape of repeating offences or intimidating witnesses and the like have been shown by learned AGA.
18. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, submissions made by learned counsel for the parties, the evidence on record, and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the Court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed.
19. Let the applicant- Dilip involved in aforementioned case crime number be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following conditions.
(i) The applicant shall not tamper with evidence.
(ii) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the Trial Court on dates fixed for (1) opening of the case, (2) framing of charge and (3) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. /351 B. N. S. S. If in the opinion of the Trial Court absence of the applicant is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the Trial Court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against him in accordance with law.
20. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. Identity, status and residence proof of the applicant and sureties be verified by the court concerned before the bonds are accepted.
21. It is made clear that observations made in granting bail to the applicant shall not in any way affect the learned trial Judge in forming his independent opinion based on the testimony of the witnesses.
Order Date: - 10. 1. 2025/ Vikas
(Justice Krishan Pahal)

[case 65]
Madras High Court Ravichandiran vs State Rep. By on 26 February, 2024 Author: T. V. Thamilselvi Bench: T. V. Thamilselvi Crl. O. P. No. 6605 of 2022 IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 26. 02. 2024 CORAM: THE HON'BLE MRS. JUSTICE T. V. THAMILSELVI Crl. O. P. No. 6605 of 2022 and Crl. M. P. No. 3751 of 2022 1. Ravichandiran 2. Chandira 3. Deepika. .. Petitioners Versus 1. State rep. by, The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Villianur, Puducherry. Crime No. 5 of 2019 2. Sreemathy. .. Respondents PRAYER: Criminal Original Petition filed under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code, praying to call for the records in C. C. No. 548 of 2021 pending on the file of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Puducherry and quash the same. This petition has been filed to quash the proceedings in C. C. No. 548 of 2021 pending on the file of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Puducherry in which cognizance was taken for the offence under Sections 498(A), 324, 406, 294(B), 120(B), 506(ii) IPC r/w 34 IPC @ u/s 498(A), 406, 294(B), 120(B), 506(ii) IPC r/w 34 IPC and Sec. 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act. The case of the prosecution is the 1st and 2nd petitioners / A2 & A3 are the father-in-law and mother-in-law of the 2nd respondent / defacto complainant. The 3rd petitioner / A4 is the sister in law of the 2nd respondent. A1/ Dhinesh Raj is the husband of the defacto complainant. The petitioners along with A1 had subjected the defacto complainant to cruelty and harassed during her marital period by demanding more dowry and abused in filthy languages and threatened her with dire consequences of her life and also misappropriated her sridhana properties and gold items. Hence, the complaint. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the marriage took place between A1 and 2nd respondent on 21. 04. 2017 at Raja Thirumana Mahal, Villianur Bypass Road, Pondicherry, out of the wedlock, a female child was born. He further submitted that the based on the complaint given by the defacto complainant the respondent police had conducted enquiry and closed the complaint. Thereafter, the defacto complainant filed a petition under Section 156(3) CrPC before the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Puducherry in Crl. M. P. No. 3071 of 2019. The learned trial Judge passed an order to direct the 1st respondent to conduct and enquiry and report. Thereafter, the respondent police registered the case against the petitioners and A1 / Dhinesh Raj under Sections 498A, 324, 406, 294(B), 120(B), 506(ii) IPC r/w 34 IPC in Crime No. 05/2019 dated 04. 12. 2019. Subsequently, the sections were altered under Section 498(A), 406, 294(B), 120(B), 506(ii) IPC r/w 34IPC and Section 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act. The same has been reported before the learned trial Judge on 30. 06. 2021 by the 1st respondent. He also submitted that the petitioners are innocent and they have been falsely implicated in this case. The petitioners are never harassed the defacto complainant at any point of time and they are not demanding dowry from the defacto complainant. He further submitted that the petitioners returned the Jewels and Sreedhana Articles belongs to the defacto complainant and also there is no specific overt act against these petitioners. Hence, he prays to quash the CC. No. 548 of 2021, against the petitioners. The learned Government Advocate (Crl. Side) submitted that there was a matrimonial dispute among the petitioners & A1 and the defacto complainant. Due to the harassment and dowry demand of the petitioners, the defacto complainant lodged a complainant before the 1st respondent. Based on the complaint FIR was registered in Crime No. 5 of 2019 and have been taken cognizance for the offences under Sections 498(A), 406, 294(B), 120(B), 506(ii) IPC r/w 34 IPC and Sec. 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act. During the pendency of the proceedings, the learned Advocate Commissioner was appointed to take inventory of the articles in Bank locker stands in the name of A1 and 2nd petitioner with the help of bank officials, SBI Branch, Villiyanur, Pondicherry and identify the jewels and file a inventory report along with photographs before this Court on or before 26. 02. 2024.  On 21. 02. 2024 at 2. 50 p. m. , the learned Advocate Commissioner was opened the locker in the presence of Branch Manager, Cash Officer and parties with advocates, wherein one Tiffin Box, two small jewel boxes and one family partition document and Kalayan Jewellery Card were being kept in the locker. The jewels found in the locker was belonged to the mother-in-law of the defacto complainant and the defacto complainant also identified and admitted that Jewels kept in the locker was not belonged to her. The safe deposit locker account was opened in the name of Chandra on 11. 01. 2016 and later it was converted into joint account on the request from Chandra to add his son name Dinesh Raj /A1. Thereafter, the locker was operated by mother-in-law and her husband / A1 in joint account commenced from 15. 04. 2016. According to the defacto complainant, after the marriage all the jewels were kept in the Bank locker. But, the learned counsel for the petitioners submitted all her jewels and sreedhana articles were returned to the defacto complainant when she left her matrimonial home. The defacto complainant and A1 appeared in person before this Court, and they have some telephonic conversations with regard to return of jewels. It can be proved only before the trial and they also raise all their defence before the trial Court. Hence, this Court declines to quash the proceedings in C. C. No. 548 of 2021 pending on the file of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Puducherry. Accordingly, this Criminal Original Petition is dismissed. The Advocate Commissioner report shall form part and parcel of this order. Consequently, the connected Miscellaneous petition is closed.

[case 66]
Madras High Court Ravichandiran vs State Rep. By on 26 February, 2024 Author: T. V. Thamilselvi Bench: T. V. Thamilselvi Crl. O. P. No. 6605 of 2022 IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 26. 02. 2024 CORAM: THE HON'BLE MRS. JUSTICE T. V. THAMILSELVI Crl. O. P. No. 6605 of 2022 and Crl. M. P. No. 3751 of 2022 1. Ravichandiran 2. Chandira 3. Deepika. .. Petitioners Versus 1. State rep. by, The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Villianur, Puducherry. Crime No. 5 of 2019 2. Sreemathy. .. Respondents PRAYER: Criminal Original Petition filed under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code, praying to call for the records in C. C. No. 548 of 2021 pending on the file of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Puducherry and quash the same. This petition has been filed to quash the proceedings in C. C. No. 548 of 2021 pending on the file of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Puducherry in which cognizance was taken for the offence under Sections 498(A), 324, 406, 294(B), 120(B), 506(ii) IPC r/w 34 IPC @ u/s 498(A), 406, 294(B), 120(B), 506(ii) IPC r/w 34 IPC and Sec. 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act. The case of the prosecution is the 1st and 2nd petitioners / A2 & A3 are the father-in-law and mother-in-law of the 2nd respondent / defacto complainant. The 3rd petitioner / A4 is the sister in law of the 2nd respondent. A1/ Dhinesh Raj is the husband of the defacto complainant. The petitioners along with A1 had subjected the defacto complainant to cruelty and harassed during her marital period by demanding more dowry and abused in filthy languages and threatened her with dire consequences of her life and also misappropriated her sridhana properties and gold items. Hence, the complaint. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the marriage took place between A1 and 2nd respondent on 21. 04. 2017 at Raja Thirumana Mahal, Villianur Bypass Road, Pondicherry, out of the wedlock, a female child was born. He further submitted that the based on the complaint given by the defacto complainant the respondent police had conducted enquiry and closed the complaint. Thereafter, the defacto complainant filed a petition under Section 156(3) CrPC before the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Puducherry in Crl. M. P. No. 3071 of 2019. The learned trial Judge passed an order to direct the 1st respondent to conduct and enquiry and report. Thereafter, the respondent police registered the case against the petitioners and A1 / Dhinesh Raj under Sections 498A, 324, 406, 294(B), 120(B), 506(ii) IPC r/w 34 IPC in Crime No. 05/2019 dated 04. 12. 2019. Subsequently, the sections were altered under Section 498(A), 406, 294(B), 120(B), 506(ii) IPC r/w 34IPC and Section 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act. The same has been reported before the learned trial Judge on 30. 06. 2021 by the 1st respondent. He also submitted that the petitioners are innocent and they have been falsely implicated in this case. The petitioners are never harassed the defacto complainant at any point of time and they are not demanding dowry from the defacto complainant. He further submitted that the petitioners returned the Jewels and Sreedhana Articles belongs to the defacto complainant and also there is no specific overt act against these petitioners. Hence, he prays to quash the CC. No. 548 of 2021, against the petitioners. The learned Government Advocate (Crl. Side) submitted that there was a matrimonial dispute among the petitioners & A1 and the defacto complainant. Due to the harassment and dowry demand of the petitioners, the defacto complainant lodged a complainant before the 1st respondent. Based on the complaint FIR was registered in Crime No. 5 of 2019 and have been taken cognizance for the offences under Sections 498(A), 406, 294(B), 120(B), 506(ii) IPC r/w 34 IPC and Sec. 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act. During the pendency of the proceedings, the learned Advocate Commissioner was appointed to take inventory of the articles in Bank locker stands in the name of A1 and 2nd petitioner with the help of bank officials, SBI Branch, Villiyanur, Puducherry and identify the jewels and file a inventory report along with photographs before this Court on or before 26. 02. 2024.  On 21. 02. 2024 at 2. 50 p. m. , the learned Advocate Commissioner was opened the locker in the presence of Branch Manager, Cash Officer and parties with advocates, wherein one Tiffin Box, two small jewel boxes and one family partition document and Kalayan Jewellery Card were being kept in the locker. The jewels found in the locker was belonged to the mother-in-law of the defacto complainant and the defacto complainant also identified and admitted that Jewels kept in the locker was not belonged to her. The safe deposit locker account was opened in the name of Chandra on 11. 01. 2016 and later it was converted into joint account on the request from Chandra to add his son name Dinesh Raj /A1. Thereafter, the locker was operated by mother-in-law and her husband / A1 in joint account commenced from 15. 04. 2016. According to the defacto complainant, after the marriage all the jewels were kept in the Bank locker. But, the learned counsel for the petitioners submitted all her jewels and sreedhana articles were returned to the defacto complainant when she left her matrimonial home. The defacto complainant and A1 appeared in person before this Court, and they have some telephonic conversations with regard to return of jewels. It can be proved only before the trial and they also raise all their defence before the trial Court. Hence, this Court declines to quash the proceedings in C. C. No. 548 of 2021 pending on the file of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Puducherry. Accordingly, this Criminal Original Petition is dismissed. The Advocate Commissioner report shall form part and parcel of this order. Consequently, the connected Miscellaneous petition is closed.

[case 67]
CisSc No. 7095/16 State vs. Fareem Beg Page 1 Of 6 on 30 May, 2017. IN THE COURT OF SHRI BALWANT RAI BANSAL ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE1 (SOUTH), NEW DELHI. CIS  Sessions Case No. 7095/16 FIR No. 391/15 Police Station: Mehrauli In the matter of: State VERSUS Fareem Beg S/o Sh. Mahboob Beg Present Address:  Coconut Shop situated at CNG Pump, Dera Road, Rajpur Khurd, Delhi Permanent Address:  V. P. O. Mavai Kajiyan Tehsil Baheri, PS Sher Garh, District Bareilly, U. P. Date of Institution: 11. 12. 2015 Date of Reserving judgment: Not reserved Date of pronouncement: 30. 05. 2017 JUDGMENT 1. In the present case, accused Fareem Beg S/o Mahboob Beg has been charged and facing trial for the commission of offences punishable under section 354 of Indian Penal Code (in short 'IPC') and section 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (in short 'POCSO Act'), 2012 r/w section 9 of the said Act on the allegations of outraging the modesty of a girl child, namely, V (real name withheld in order to conceal her identity), aged about 8 years and committing aggravated sexual assault upon her. 2. The FIR in question was registered on the complaint of Raju Yadav, the father of the victim girl, who in his complaint has alleged that on 23. 08. 2015 at 6. 00 PM, accused Fareem Beg along with his two associates namely Naim and Sehzad misbehaved with his victim daughter, abused her and gesturing with her and when he objected to the same, he was threatened by accused and his associates. On the said complaint of the father of the victim, the present FIR was registered u/s 506/509 of IPC and section 12 of POCSO Act on 24. 08. 2015 and the investigation was commenced. 3. During course of investigation, counseling of victim girl was conducted by NGO Mehar Charitable Society through DCW and her statement under section 161 of Cr. P. C. was recorded and site plan of place of occurrence was prepared at the instance of complainant Raju Yadav. Statement of the victim under section 164 of Cr. P. C. was also got recorded. During further investigation, date of birth proof of the victim girl was collected and accused Fareem Beg was arrested on 13. 10. 2015 and was sent to judicial custody. However, subsequently he was granted bail by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi vide order dated 27. 04. 2016. Another accused Shezad had joined the investigation but no sufficient evidence against him was found and therefore IO kept his name in column No. 12 of the chargesheet. The coaccused namely Faim @ Naim who is brother of accused Fareem Beg was evading and he is at large. NBWs against him were taken. On the basis of the statement of the victim girl recorded under section 164 of Cr. P. C, section 506/509 IPC and Section 12 of POCSO Act were added and challan was prepared under sections 354/506/509/34 of IPC and section 8 & 12 of POCSO Act and put up before the court on 11. 12. 2015 for trial against the accused Fareem Beg. 4. On 29. 02. 2016, after hearing the Ld. Defence Counsel for the accused Fareem Beg and the Ld. Special Public Prosecution, Charge for the offences punishable under sections 354 of IPC and. 5. The victim and the complainant, who is also father of the victim on whose complaint the present FIR got registered against the accused Fareem Beg, are the star and material witnesses of the prosecution, who could have proved the allegations levelled against the accused. But the prosecution has miserably failed to examine both the witnesses despite availing sufficient opportunities. The prosecution even could not trace out the victim and her father and they could not be served despite best efforts made by the prosecution. The victim girl though in her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr. P. C. stated that she was playing at 6'O clock in the evening and at that time Naim, Fareem (accused in the present case) and Shejzaad came there. Naim caught her, Fareem caught and kissed her and put his both the hands in her panty and tried to open her pajama. She shouted loudly then her father came and they all fled away. She further sated that Fareem and Naim came to her father later and threatened him if he would make any complaint in this regard, they would kill her father. But the victim girl did not appear in the witness box to prove all these allegations. In the absence of testimony of victim and her father, no incriminating evidence has come on record against the accused. There is no other eyewitness to the incident. Rest of the witnesses are formal i. e. the counselor who counseled the victim, the principal to prove the age of the victim, DO to prove the registration of FIR, IO and the Ld. MM who recorded the statement of victim u/s 164 Cr. P. C. Hence, it will be a futile exercise to examine rest of the witnesses in this case, as none of them is an eyewitness to the incident. Continuing with this trial any further, will only result in wastage of time and resources, and there will be no impact on the result of this trial. Hence, the prosecution evidence is closed and the SA of the accused is dispensed with. 6. In the overall facts and circumstances of the case, there being no material or incriminating evidence against the accused Fareem Beg, he cannot be said to be guilty of committing the offences as charged against him and he is entitled to be acquitted. Accordingly, Accused Fareem Beg is acquitted of the offences punishable under sections 354 of IPC and section 10 of POCSO Act. 7. However, Fareem Beg is required to furnish bail bond under section 437A of Cr. P. C, which shall remain in force for a period of six months. 8. File be consigned to Record Room, after due compliance of provisions of section 437A of Cr. P. C. by Fareem Beg. Pronounced in the open Court (Balwant Rai Bansal) on 30th of May, 2017. Additional Sessions Judge01 South District: Saket Courts: New Delhi.

[case 68]
The brief facts of the case of the appellant are that the appellant married the respondent on 17. 08. 2001 as per Christian rites and customs. Due to wedlock, they begotten two children. The respondent/wife filed a petition before the lower Court for divorce on the ground of cruelty and the appellant herein resisted the same by filing counter. However, the lower Court, only on considering the oral evidence adduced by the respondent side has granted the decree of divorce. Hence, the present appeal.
Learned counsel for the appellant would state that the divorce petition was filed on the ground of cruelty but the respondent/wife has not proved that the same. The further allegation of the respondent against the appellant that he is not maintaining the family was also not proved. Even when the respondent was cross examined as P. W. 1, she had categorically stated that her father is not helping her for running the family. Therefore, it is proved that only the appellant is maintaining the family. It was also alleged by the respondent that the appellant had assaulted the respondent and the appellant married one Beula. The said allegation was also not proved. The respondent did not give any complaint to the police for assaulting her and she did not file any document to prove the alleged marriage of the appellant with Beula. Without considering all these aspects and without any basis, the lower Court had erroneously passed the decree of divorce as against the appellant. Hence, the learned counsel prays to set aside the judgement and decree passed by the lower Court.
Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the respondent would state that though the appellant and the respondent loved each other and got married with the consent of their parents, the appellant did not spare a single paise to meet the domestic expenses and education expenses of the children. When the same was questioned, the appellant assaulted her and abused her in unparliamentary words and harassed her both physically and mentally and the same had become a routine affair in day to day life. Further, the appellant pressurized the respondent to bring more money from her parents for his extravagance. The appellant created unhealthy atmosphere in the marital home. The appellant had association with anti-social elements and was also arrested in a case of attempt to murder and later, remanded to judicial custody. The respondent mobilized funds and spent about Rs. 2 lakhs for getting the appellant on bail. But the appellant did not choose to clear the debts borrowed by the respondent for his release on bail. When the respondent advised him to rectify his adamant character, he threatened her and assaulted her. Further, the appellant developed intimacy with another lady viz. , R. Beula. When the respondent lodged a complaint against him before the All Women Police Station, he accepted that he had married her. Thereafter, the appellant deserted the respondent and two children and is living with the said Beula. The appellant had deserted the respondent and two children and unable to tolerate the cruelty, the respondent came under the shelter of her parents along with her children. Therefore, the learned counsel for the respondent would state that only on considering all the above factual aspects, the lower court had granted the decree of divorce and the same need not be interfered with.
Heard the learned counsel for the appellant, learned counsel for the respondent and perused the materials available on record.
It is not in dispute that the respondent is a Hindu and the appellant is a Christian and they got married as per the Christian rites and customs. Due to wedlock, two children were born to them. From the records, it is seen that the appellant did not provide any monetary help to the respondent. The evidence of P. W. 2, who is the father of the respondent, would also go to show that he is only looking after his daughter and her children till date and the appellant used abusive language and beat his daughter when she questioned his irresponsible behaviour. The second marriage of the appellant with one Beula and that he got a girl child through Beula was also proved by examining one P. W. 3, who is none other than the cousin brother of the appellant. Contracting second marriage while the first marriage is in existence would not only amount to bigamy but also amount to cruelty. In view of the above, we are of the view that the lower Court, on considering the oral and documentary evidence had rightly granted divorce on the ground of cruelty, with which, we find no infirmity or illegality to interfere with. Accordingly, the Civil Miscellaneous Appeal fails and the same stands dismissed. No costs. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petition is closed.

[case 69]
The brief facts of the case of the appellant are that the appellant married the respondent on 17. 08. 2001 as per Christian rites and customs. Due to wedlock, they begotten two children. The respondent/wife filed a petition before the lower Court for divorce on the ground of cruelty and the appellant herein resisted the same by filing counter. However, the lower Court, only on considering the oral evidence adduced by the respondent side has granted the decree of divorce. Hence, the present appeal.
Learned counsel for the appellant would state that the divorce petition was filed on the ground of cruelty but the respondent/wife has not proved that the same. The further allegation of the respondent against the appellant that he is not maintaining the family was also not proved. Even when the respondent was cross examined as P. W. 1, she had categorically stated that her father is not helping her for running the family. Therefore, it is proved that only the appellant is maintaining the family. It was also alleged by the respondent that the appellant had assaulted the respondent and the appellant married one Beula. The said allegation was also not proved. The respondent did not give any complaint to the police for assaulting her and she did not file any document to prove the alleged marriage of the appellant with Beula. Without considering all these aspects and without any basis, the lower Court had erroneously passed the decree of divorce as against the appellant. Hence, the learned counsel prays to set aside the judgement and decree passed by the lower Court.
Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the respondent would state that though the appellant and the respondent loved each other and got married with the consent of their parents, the appellant did not spare a single paise to meet the domestic expenses and education expenses of the children. When the same was questioned, the appellant assaulted her and abused her in unparliamentary words and harassed her both physically and mentally and the same had become a routine affair in day to day life. Further, the appellant pressurized the respondent to bring more money from her parents for his extravagance. The appellant created unhealthy atmosphere in the marital home. The appellant had association with anti-social elements and was also arrested in a case of attempt to murder and later, remanded to judicial custody. The respondent mobilized funds and spent about Rs. 2 lakhs for getting the appellant on bail. But the appellant did not choose to clear the debts borrowed by the respondent for his release on bail. When the respondent advised him to rectify his adamant character, he threatened her and assaulted her. Further, the appellant developed intimacy with another lady viz. , R. Beula. When the respondent lodged a complaint against him before the All Women Police Station, he accepted that he had married her. Thereafter, the appellant deserted the respondent and two children and is living with the said Beula. The appellant had deserted the respondent and two children and unable to tolerate the cruelty, the respondent came under the shelter of her parents along with her children. Therefore, the learned counsel for the respondent would state that only on considering all the above factual aspects, the lower court had granted the decree of divorce and the same need not be interfered with.
Heard the learned counsel for the appellant, learned counsel for the respondent and perused the materials available on record.
It is not in dispute that the respondent is a Hindu and the appellant is a Christian and they got married as per the Christian rites and customs. Due to wedlock, two children were born to them. From the records, it is seen that the appellant did not provide any monetary help to the respondent. The evidence of P. W. 2, who is the father of the respondent, would also go to show that he is only looking after his daughter and her children till date and the appellant used abusive language and beat his daughter when she questioned his irresponsible behaviour. The second marriage of the appellant with one Beula and that he got a girl child through Beula was also proved by examining one P. W. 3, who is none other than the cousin brother of the appellant. Contracting second marriage while the first marriage is in existence would not only amount to bigamy but also amount to cruelty. In view of the above, we are of the view that the lower Court, on considering the oral and documentary evidence had rightly granted divorce on the ground cruelty, with which, we find no infirmity or illegality to interfere with. Accordingly, the Civil Miscellaneous Appeal fails and the same stands dismissed. No costs. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petition is closed.

[case 70]
Dated: 14-07-2023 Shri F. A. Shah- Advocate for the appellant. Dr. Anjali Gyanani - Public Prosecutor for respondent/State. Heard on I. A. No. 7003 of 2023, which is first application under Section 389(1) Cr. P. C. filed on behalf of appellant-Akhtar Khan seeking suspension of sentence and grant of bail. Appellant-Akhtar Khan stood convicted under Section 4(2) of POCSO Act and sentenced to undergo 20 years' R. I. with a fine of Rs. 2, 000/- and under Section 9 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and sentenced to undergo 2 years' R. I with a fine of Rs. 1, 000/- with default stipulations vide judgment of conviction and order of sentence dated 15/12/2022 passed by Special Judge (POCSO Act), Shivpuri (M. P. ) in Special Case No. 124/2019. Present appellant so far has undergone incarceration of about 17 months in toto, as transpired during the course of hearing. Co-accused/Appellant No. 1 in Criminal Appeal No. 838 of 2023-Shakil Khan is the biological father of the prosecutrix as after the demise of his first wife and mother of the prosecutrix, he married to co-accused Shehnaz Bano. As per prosecution story, the prosecutrix claiming herself to be 14 years of age, on 20/09/2019, lodged an FIR to the effect that for the last 4-5 years since the time her mother expired, she was ill-treated by her step-mother Shehnaz Bano off and on. She, therefore, had left the house and started living with her grand-parents. Thereafter, on 1/1/2019, while she was staying with her maternal uncle's house, step-mother Shehnaz came there and against her wishes brought her back. Thereafter, she started searching for the match though she was not major. She manipulated her marriage (Nikah) with accused/appellant Akhtar and Farukh Khan had reduced in writing the process of Nikah. After so-called solemnization of marriage (Nikah), she was subjected to forcible sexual abuse against her wishes by Akhtar from 24/08/2019 to 28/08/2019. Thereafter, accused/appellant Akhtar called her grand-parents to the Kota Court and whereafter, signing of certain documents, she was given in custody of her grand-parents. Thereafter, she came back to her grand-parents' house from Kota. It is alleged that appellant Akhtar had also threatened the prosecutrix with dire consequences, if she divulged the factum of marriage and that of sexual abuse. In the aforesaid backdrop, the prosecutrix filed the complaint and the same was registered at Crime No. 213/19. Based thereupon, investigation was set in motion. The Investigating Officer, upon collection of incriminating evidence, filed challan. The Special Court upon critical evaluation of the evidence placed on record convicted and sentenced the present appellant as aforesaid. Learned counsel for the appellant while taking exception to the impugned judgement submits that the prosecutrix in her statement before the Court has clearly stated that her date of birth is 11/10/2000 as recorded in Aadhar Card and therefore, she was major as on the date of incident. However, the trial Court in Para-20 of the judgement, ignored the same and relied upon her date of birth as per the certificate of the Municipal Corporation, Kota (Ex. P/10) as 11/10/2005. That apart, she has turned hostile and belied the story of prosecution. Shakil Khan, co-convict/appellant No. 1 in Criminal Appeal No. 838 of 2023, has already been admitted to suspension of sentence and grant of bail vide order dated 27. 04. 2023. On such grounds, learned counsel prays for suspension of sentence and grant of bail to the present appellant. Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor for respondent/State, while opposing the application supporting the judgment impugned submits that looking to the gravity of offence, no exception can be taken in the matter of suspension of sentence and grant of bail to the present appellant. Upon hearing learned counsel for the parties, though this Court refrains from commenting upon rival contentions touching merits of the case but regard being had to the fact that co-convict/appellant No. 1 -Shakil Khan in Criminal Appeal No. 838 of 2023 has already been admitted to suspension of sentence and grant of bail vide order dated 27. 04. 2023, the present appellant has so far undergone incarceration of 17 months in toto coupled with the fact that appeal is of the year 2023 and there is no likelihood of its early hearing in near future and therefore, in the obtaining facts and circumstances, we hereby extend the benefit of suspension of sentence and grant of bail to present appellant-Akhtar Khan. Accordingly, I. A. 7003 of 2023 stands allowed and it is directed that the jail sentence of appellant-Akhtar Khan shall remain suspended during pendency of present appeal and he shall be released on bail, subject to verification of amount of fine being deposited and on his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs. 2, 00, 000/- (Rupees Two Lacs only) with one solvent surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the Trial Court. Appellant-Akhtar Khan is directed to appear before the Registry of this Court first on 13. 09. 2023 and on other subsequent dates as may be fixed by Office in this behalf. Observations on facts, if any, are only for the purpose of disposal of the application for suspension of sentence and shall have no bearing on the merits of the appeal. Certified copy as per rules. (ROHIT ARYA) (SANJEEV S KALGAONKAR) JUDGE JUDGE pd

[case 71]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V THURSDAY, THE 12TH DAY OF JULY 2018 / 21ST ASHADHA, 1940 Bail Appl. .No. 4577 of 2018 ------------------- CRIME NO. 388/2018 OF KILIKOLLOOR POLICE STATION, KOLLAM PETITIONER/ACCUSED. BABU @ BABU RAJAN PILLAI, AGED 52 YEARS, S/O RAGHAVAN PILLAI, MANGALAM NAGAR 122, PUNTHALATHAZHAM, VADAKKEVILA VILLAGE, KILIKOLLOOR, KOLLAM. BY ADV. SRI. BIJU C. ABRAHAM RESPONDENT/STATE. STATE OF KERALA REPRESENTED BY THE INSPECTOR OF POLICE, KILIKOLLOOR, KOLLAM DISTRICT, THROUGH THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM. BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR MR. C. N. PRABHAKARAN THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 12-07-2018, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V. , J ================== B. A. No. 4577 of 2018 ================== Dated this the 12th day of July, 2018 ORDER This application is filed under B' 439 of the Cr. P. C. 2. The applicant herein is the accused in Crime No. 388 of 2018 of the Kilikolloor Police Station, registered under B' 354A of the IPC, B' 9(n) r/w. B' 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, and also under B'75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015. 3. The de facto complainant is the mother of the survivor child, who is aged about 14 years and studying in the IX Standard. She alleged that her daughter was found missing on 11. 6. 2018 from school. A crime was registered under Section 57 of the Kerala Police Act, 2011. The minor child was traced out later. She disclosed that she was in love with a boy and she had eloped with him. She also disclosed that she has had an active sexual relationship with the said boy, who is aged 19 years. In the said statement, she also disclosed that the applicant herein, who is her step-father, has touched her breasts with sexual intent on more than one occasion. On these allegations, two Crimes were registered. Crime No. 387 of 2018 was registered against her 19 year old lover under B'B' 366 and 376(2)(n) of the IPC and under B' 5(1) r/w. B' 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012. Immediately thereafter, the instant crime was registered against the applicant for sexually harassing the child. 4. The learned counsel appearing for the applicant submitted that he has been implicated as his step-daughter felt that he was responsible for the arrest and detention of her lover. As the child was quite young, the applicant herein along with his wife had strongly opposed the relationship that she had with the accused in Crime No. 387 of 2018. It is contended that after the death of the father of the minor child about three years back, the applicant has married her mother and he has been caring and protecting the family. Finally, it is submitted that the applicant has been in custody from 12. 6. 2018 and prays that orders for his release be issued. 5. Heard the learned Public Prosecutor, who has opposed the prayer. It is submitted that the medical examination report of the child shows that she has been subjected to penetrative sexual assault by the 1st accused. It is further submitted that the child has unequivocally stated that the applicant herein had abused her on more than one occasions. 6. I have considered the submissions advanced and have gone through the case diary. It appears that the applicant herein has been residing with the family after marrying the mother for the past more than two years. Allegations have been levelled against him only after registration of the crime against the lover of the child. The contention of the learned counsel that he has been implicated for his exuberance in prosecuting the lover of the survivor cannot be ruled out at this stage. Furthermore, serious allegations are levelled against the 1 st accused. The investigation appears to have progressed much and in the facts and circumstances further detention in custody of the applicant may not serve any purpose. By imposing appropriate conditions, for safeguarding the interest of the prosecution as well as the protection of the minor child, the applicant can now be released. 7. In the result, this application will stand allowed. The applicant shall be released on bail on his executing a bond for Rs. 1, 00, 000/-(Rupees one lakh only) with two solvent sureties each for the like sum to the satisfaction of the court having jurisdiction. The above order shall be subject to the following conditions: 1). The applicant shall appear before the Investigating Officer on all Saturdays between 10 a. m. and 1. 00 p. m. , for 3 months or till final report is filed, whichever is earlier. 2). He shall not enter the limits of Kilikkolloor Police Station for a period of six months except for complying with the conditions of this order. If for any extraordinary reason the applicant requires to enter the limits, previous permission has to be obtained from the jurisdictional Court. 3). He shall not intimidate or attempt to influence the witnesses; nor shall he tamper with the evidence. He shall not contact the victim or her family members. 4). He shall not commit any offence while he is on bail. 5). He shall not leave India without the permission of the Court and if having passport, shall deposit the same before the Trial Court within a week; If release of the passport is required at a later period, he shall be at liberty to move appropriate application before the Court having jurisdiction. In case of violation of any of the above conditions, the jurisdictional Court shall be empowered to consider the application for cancellation, if any, and pass appropriate orders in accordance with the law. Sd/- Raja Vijayaraghavan V. , Judge

[case 72]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V THURSDAY, THE 12TH DAY OF JULY 2018 / 21ST ASHADHA, 1940 Bail Appl. .No. 4577 of 2018 ------------------- CRIME NO. 388/2018 OF KILIKOLLOOR POLICE STATION, KOLLAM PETITIONER/ACCUSED. BABU @ BABU RAJAN PILLAI, AGED 52 YEARS, S/O RAGHAVAN PILLAI, MANGALAM NAGAR 122, PUNTHALATHAZHAM, VADAKKEVILA VILLAGE, KILIKOLLOOR, KOLLAM. BY ADV. SRI. BIJU C. ABRAHAM RESPONDENT/STATE. STATE OF KERALA REPRESENTED BY THE INSPECTOR OF POLICE, KILIKOLLOOR, KOLLAM DISTRICT, THROUGH THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM. BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR MR. C. N. PRABHAKARAN THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 12-07-2018, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V. , J ================== B. A. No. 4577 of 2018 ================== Dated this the 12th day of July, 2018 ORDER This application is filed under B' 439 of the Cr. P. C. 2. The applicant herein is the accused in Crime No. 388 of 2018 of the Kilikolloor Police Station, registered under B' 354A of the IPC, B' 9(n) r/w. B' 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, and also under B'75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015. 3. The de facto complainant is the mother of the survivor child, who is aged about 14 years and studying in the IX Standard. She alleged that her daughter was found missing on 11. 6. 2018 from school. A crime was registered under Section 57 of the Kerala Police Act, 2011. The minor child was traced out later. She disclosed that she was in love with a boy and she had eloped with him. She also disclosed that she has had an active sexual relationship with the said boy, who is aged 19 years. In the said statement, she also disclosed that the applicant herein, who is her step-father, has touched her breasts with sexual intent on more than one occasion. On these allegations, two Crimes were registered. Crime No. 387 of 2018 was registered against her 19 year old lover under B'B' 366 and 376(2)(n) of the IPC and under B' 5(1) r/w. B' 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012. Immediately thereafter, the instant crime was registered against the applicant for sexually harassing the child. 4. The learned counsel appearing for the applicant submitted that he has been implicated as his step-daughter felt that he was responsible for the arrest and detention of her lover. As the child was quite young, the applicant herein along with his wife had strongly opposed the relationship that she had with the accused in Crime No. 387 of 2018. It is contended that after the death of the father of the minor child about three years back, the applicant has married her mother and he has been caring and protecting the family. Finally, it is submitted that the applicant has been in custody from 12. 6. 2018 and prays that orders for his release be issued. 5. Heard the learned Public Prosecutor, who has opposed the prayer. It is submitted that the medical examination report of the child shows that she has been subjected to penetrative sexual assault by the 1st accused. It is further submitted that the child has unequivocally stated that the applicant herein had abused her on more than one occasions. 6. I have considered the submissions advanced and have gone through the case diary. It appears that the applicant herein has been residing with the family after marrying the mother for the past more than two years. Allegations have been levelled against him only after registration of the crime against the lover of the child. The contention of the learned counsel that he has been implicated for his exuberance in prosecuting the lover of the survivor cannot be ruled out at this stage. Furthermore, serious allegations are levelled against the 1st accused. The investigation appears to have progressed much and in the facts and circumstances further detention in custody of the applicant may not serve any purpose. By imposing appropriate conditions, for safeguarding the interest of the prosecution as well as the protection of the minor child, the applicant can now be released. 7. In the result, this application will stand allowed. The applicant shall be released on bail on his executing a bond for Rs. 1, 00, 000/-(Rupees one lakh only) with two solvent sureties each for the like sum to the satisfaction of the court having jurisdiction. The above order shall be subject to the following conditions: 1). The applicant shall appear before the Investigating Officer on all Saturdays between 10 a. m. and 1. 00 p. m. , for 3 months or till final report is filed, whichever is earlier. 2). He shall not enter the limits of Kilikkolloor Police Station for a period of six months except for complying with the conditions of this order. If for any extraordinary reason the applicant requires to enter the limits, previous permission has to be obtained from the jurisdictional Court. 3). He shall not intimidate or attempt to influence the witnesses; nor shall he tamper with the evidence. He shall not contact the victim or her family members. 4). He shall not commit any offence while he is on bail. 5). He shall not leave India without the permission of the Court and if having passport, shall deposit the same before the Trial Court within a week; If release of the passport is required at a later period, he shall be at liberty to move appropriate application before the Court having jurisdiction. In case of violation of any of the above conditions, the jurisdictional Court shall be empowered to consider the application for cancellation, if any, and pass appropriate orders in accordance with the law. Sd/- Raja Vijayaraghavan V. , Judge

[case 73]
Riyazahmed Imamsab Bagwaan vs State Of Karnataka on 5 July, 2024 -1- NC: 2024: KHC-D: 9250 CRL. P No. 101901 of 2024 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA, DHARWAD BENCH DATED THIS THE 5TH DAY OF JULY, 2024 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE S. RACHAIAH CRIMINAL PETITION NO. 101901 OF 2024 (439) BETWEEN: RIYAZAHMED IMAMSAB BAGWAAN, AGE: 36 YEARS, OCC: BUSINESS, R/O: JAMKHANA GALLI, NAVALGUND, DHARWAD DIST. .. .PETITIONER (BY SRI. R. M. JAVED, ADVOCATE) AND: STATE OF KARNATAKA THROUGH NAVALGUND P. S. , DHARWAD, REP BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HGH COURT OF KARNATAKA, DHARWAD BENCH, DHARWAD. .. .RESPONDENT CHANDRASHEKAR LAXMAN (BY SRI. PRAVEENA Y. DEVAREDDIYAVARA, HCGP) THIS CRIMINAL PETITION IS FILED U/S 439 OF CR. P. C. , SEEKING TO ALLOW THE PETITION AND ENLARGE THE PETITIONER/ACCUSED NO. 1 ON BAIL IN CONNECTION WITH NAVALGUND P. S. CRIME NO. 47/2024 FOR THE ALLEGED OFFENCES PUNISHABLE U/S 498A, 306 and 34 of IPC ON SUCH TERMS, AND CONDITIONS THAT THIS HON'BLE COURT MAY BE PLEASE TO IMPOSE IN THE ITEREST OF JUSTICE AND EQUITY. THIS PETITION COMING ON FOR ORDERS, THIS DAY, THE COURT MADE THE FOLLOWING: -2- NC: 2024: KHC-D: 9250 CRL. P No. 101901 of 2024 ORDER Heard Sri. R. M. Javed, learned counsel for the petitioner and Sri. Praveena Y. Devareddiyavara, learned HCGP for the respondent-State. 2. The petitioner/accused No. 1 is seeking regular bail in Crime No. 47/2024 of respondent Police Station for the offences punishable under Sections 498-A, 306 and 34 of IPC. Brief facts of the case are: 3. It is the case of the prosecution that the father of the deceased lodged a complaint stating that he performed the marriage of his daughter with the petitioner on 27. 12. 2018. The couple had three children. All the three children are female children. The deceased was being subjected to cruelty and harassment for having begotten three female children. She was always being scolded for not having begotten male child. In the meantime, she was also being scolded for not having proper cooking and doing household works properly. -3- NC: 2024: KHC-D: 9250 CRL. P No. 101901 of 2024 4. On 31. 03. 2024, the petitioner herein being a husband stated to have scolded his wife as she did not prepared food for dinner and it was Ramzan month. At about 8. 30 p. m. , the deceased stated to have committed suicide by hanging herself. Thereafter, it was informed to the complainant and the complainant and others went to the house of the deceased and saw that she was hanging with her saree which was tied to ceiling fan. On enquiry, the complainant learnt that there was a quarrel taken place between the husband and the deceased, consequently, she committed suicide. Therefore, complainant lodged a complaint. The jurisdictional police after registering the case conducted investigation and submitted the charge sheet. 5. It is the submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner that the petitioner has not committed any offence, he has been falsely implicated in this case. He is having three female children and he has to take care of them and he is the only earning member of the family. The entire family is depending on his income. 6. It is further submitted that there is no nexus between the death and the petitioner. The complainant learnt that, prior to the incident there was a quarrel taken place between husband and wife. However, he is a hearsay witness. None of the witnesses have spoken about the harassment, instigation or incitement to commit suicide. The law is well settled that even if a person says 'Go and die' it is not an offence under Section 306 of IPC. Therefore, the petitioner may be enlarged on bail by imposing suitable conditions. 7. Per contra, learned HCGP vehemently opposed the bail petition and submitted that the petitioner being a husband, insulted and always abusing her in a filthy language as she could not get a male child and sometimes, she was being scolded that she was not cooking properly and not doing household work as well. The instigation to commit suicide has been established by the averments of the complaint. The entire allegations rests on accused No. 1 and therefore, he is not entitled for bail. 8. Having heard the learned counsel for respective parties and also perused the averments of the charge sheet, it appears that on 31. 03. 2024 around 4. 00 p. m. , the accused No. 1 stated to have quarreled with his wife in respect of cleaning his fasting in Ramzan period. As the petitioner had scolded his wife, she stated to have committed suicide. It was informed to the complainant and the complainant and other members came to the spot and after seeing the incident and also received the information regarding said incident, lodged a complaint. However, the entire episode of what the complainant has received is nothing but hearsay and therefore, it is appropriate to grant him bail by imposing suitable conditions. 9. Hence, I proceed to pass the following: -6- NC: 2024: KHC-D: 9250 CRL. P No. 101901 of 2024 ORDER The petition is allowed. The petitioner is ordered to be enlarged on bail in Crime No. 47/2024 of respondent Police Station, on executing a personal bond in a sum of Rs. 1, 00, 000/- (Rupees One lakh only) with one surety for the likesum to the satisfaction of the Trial Court, subject to the following conditions: a) The petitioner shall not threaten or tamper the prosecution witnesses nor hamper the proceedings of the Court. b) The petitioner shall appear before the Trial Court on all dates of hearing without fail. In case, if the petitioner violates any of the bail conditions as stated above, the prosecution will be at liberty to seek for cancellation of bail. Sd/- JUDGE RKM CT: ANB List No. : 1 Sl No. : 8

[case 74]
This is an application for regular bail under Section 439 of Cr. P. C.
The applicant is the sole accused in Crime No. 630/2020 of Mattannur Police Station for having allegedly committed the offences punishable under Sections 388 and 506(i) of the I. P. C. and under Section 4 read with Section 3(c) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act). The applicant was arrested on 24. 07. 2020 and he seeks regular bail. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 20. 06. 2020, the applicant had allegedly committed unnatural offence and penetrative sexual assault on the victim, who is a 13 year old boy. The victim's father had allegedly contacted the Childline Centre and subsequently the matter was informed to the Police, in consequence of which the crime was registered. It is alleged that the incident took place in a toilet inside the compound of a hotel at a place called '19th Mile'. The applicant states that he is innocent, he has no other criminal antecedents and he is only 20 year old and that the entire allegations are false. It is stated that a similar incident had allegedly taken place on 19. 06. 2020 concerning the very same victim and he was allegedly sexually assaulted by a person named Siraj and in consequence of which Crime No. 623/2020 as lodged against the said Siraj on 26. 06. 2020 in Mattannur Police Station. Even then, crime against the applicant was not registered and ultimately it was registered only on 02. 07. 2020. The delay, according to the applicant is very crucial. It is stated that the applicant is the leader of a youth organization and because of the action taken against him for registering the crime against Siraj, the applicant has been deliberately implicated in this crime also. He was arrested on 24. 07. 2020 and has been in custody for about 58 days, and therefore, seeks regular bail. Heard the learned Counsel for the applicant and the learned Public Prosecutor. The learned Public Prosecutor has vehemently opposed application for bail stating that the applicant has committed a heinous crime attracting the offence under the I. P. C. and also for offences under Section 4(1) of the POCSO Act. It is stated that the incident which took place on 19. 06. 2020 involving the accused-Siraj and the present incident which took place on 20. 06. 2020, were in two different places. But in both these cases, the victim was sexually abused. In connection with Crime No. 623/2020 registered against Siraj, the statement of the victim was recorded by the Magistrate on 27. 06. 2020 and in that statement the victim revealed the involvement of Siraj in committing the offence on 19. 06. 2020 and also revealed the involvement of the applicant herein in another similar offence, which occurred on the successive date. The investigating officer got a copy of the statement under Section 164, Cr. P. C. from the Magistrate's Court on 02. 07. 2020 and immediately this crime was registered. Hence it is submitted by the learned Public Prosecutor that the delay is not very crucial. It is also submitted by the learned Counsel appearing for the applicant that Siraj, the accused in Crime No. 623/2020 of Mattannur Police Station, had approached this Court for anticipatory bail and the same was rejected by this Court. But the accused in that crime has not been apprehended. It is submitted by the learned Public Prosecutor that in case the applicant is released on bail, there is every possibility that the victim and his family members may be threatened. There is also an offence under Section 506(i) of the I. P. C. registered against the applicant and it is because the applicant had put the victim to fear of death and also causing hurt to his family members and that the victim had not come forward with a complaint against the applicant. Under the circumstances, it is submitted that the release of the applicant at this stage would be detrimental to the investigation and also to the victim and his entire family. Moreover, it is submitted that investigation is complete and final report has already been filed. The applicant's contention that he has no criminal antecedents may not make a weigh in his favour, particularly for the reason that the applicant had intimidated the victim from disclosing the alleged occurrence. The incident did not take place in the very same place and the attempt made by the applicant to suggest that the actual incident of sexually abusing the victim had taken place on 19. 06. 2020 and that the assailant was Siraj and with other political motives, the applicant has been falsely implicated as an accused. This submission cannot be accepted for the reason that in the confession statement allegedly given by the victim on 27. 06. 2020 before the Magistrate he has clearly revealed the involvement of the applicant in this crime. The fact is that both the crimes took place on consecutive days. The fact that the applicant had intimidated the victim and that subsequently the relatives of the applicant had also intimidated the family members of the victim also would go a long way in refusing bail to the applicant. In the result, I find that the applicant, who is accused of committing a very heinous crime against a child, is not entitled to any leniency, and therefore, the application is dismissed. The learned designated Court is directed to expedite the trial and in case there is any delay in concluding the trial because of the pandemic situation, the applicant is given the liberty to approach the jurisdictional court again for bail afresh.

[case 75]
THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 13-06-2018,
THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING:
1. This application is filed under Section 439 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure.
2. The applicant herein is the accused in Crime No. 133 of 2018
of Faroke Police Station, registered under Sections 306 and
376 of the IPC and Section 3 r/w Sec. 4, 9(m) r/w Sec. 10
and 11(v) r/w Sec. 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.
3. According to the prosecution, the applicant herein is a near
relative of the victim girl who was just 15 years of age.
They became close to each other and by misusing the
relationship, started having a sexual relationship. He also
used to take photographs and videos of their intimate acts.
Later, their relationship became strained when the applicant
started to have a liking towards another girl. It is alleged
that when the victim questioned the applicant, he
threatened her with the photographs and videos which were
in his possession. This tormented the minor girl and she
decided to take her own life. Initially, the Crime was
registered on 23. 3. 2018 under Section 174 of the Cr. P. C.
Later, on the basis of an additional statement given by the
brother of the victim, the offences under the POCSO Act
and other grave offences under the IPC were incorporated.
4. The learned counsel appearing for the applicant submits that
a detailed statement of the brother of the victim as well as
all the near relatives were recorded immediately after the
registration of the Crime. No one had a case that the
applicant herein had anything to do with the minor girl. It
was much later, i. e. , on 3. 4. 2018, the allegation of sexual
abuse and other grave acts were raised by the brother. The
drastical turnaround would affect the credibility of his version
is the submission. Finally, it is submitted that the applicant
was arrested on 05. 04. 2018 and having regard to the period
of incarceration undergone and the stage of investigation,
he be released.
5. The learned Public Prosecutor while opposing the prayer
submitted that the allegations are extremely grave. The
applicant herein is a near relative of the victim girl and there
is no reason to believe the version of the brother of the
victim. It is submitted that the applicant by feigning love
have sexually abused the minor child.
6. I have considered the submissions advanced and have gone
through the materials and records. Though the allegations
are grave, the fact remains that the investigation has made
much headway and has reached the final stages. As
submitted by the learned counsel, the brother of the victim
did not state before the investigating officer while furnishing
his initial statement that on the day prior to the death of the
child, he had an occasion to interact with her and that she
had divulged about the horrendous acts committed by the
7. Having regard to the nature and gravity of the allegations,
the material in support thereof, the stage of investigation
and the period of incarceration undergone, I am of the view
that the applicant can now be enlarged on bail.
8. In the result, this application will stand allowed. The
applicant shall be released on bail on his executing a bond
for Rs. 1, 00, 000/-(Rupees One lakh only) with two solvent
sureties each for the like sum to the satisfaction of the court
having jurisdiction. The above order shall be subject to the
following conditions:
1). The applicant shall appear before the
Investigating Officer on all Saturdays between
9 a. m. and 10 a. m. , for 2 months or till final
report is filed, whichever is earlier.
2). The applicant shall not intimidate or attempt
to influence the witnesses; nor shall he tamper
with the evidence.
3). The applicant shall not commit any offence
while he is on bail.
4). The applicant shall not leave India without
the permission of the Court and if having
passport, shall deposit the same before the Trial
Court within a week; If release of the passport
is required at a later period, the applicant shall
be at liberty to move appropriate application
before the Court having jurisdiction.
In case of violation of any of the above conditions, the
jurisdictional Court shall be empowered to consider the
application for cancellation, if any, and pass appropriate
orders in accordance with the law.

[case 76]
Karnataka High Court Ashok S/O Punnu Rathod vs The State Of Karnataka on 18 November, 2016. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA KALABURAGI BENCH DATED THIS THE 18TH DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2016 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE S. N. SATYANARAYANA CRIMINAL APPEAL No. 200125/2016 Between: Ashok S/o Punnu Rathod Age: 27 years, Occ: Coolie R/o Ingalgi, L. T. No. 2, Tq. Indi, Dist. Vijayapur. .. Appellant (By Smt Ratna N. Shivayogimath and Sri Sharanabasappa K. Babshetty, Advocates) And: The State of Karnataka Through the CPI Indi Circle Dist Vijayapur Represented by SPP High Court of Karnataka at Kalaburagi Bench. .. Respondent (By Sri Sheshadri Jaishankar, HCGP) This Criminal Appeal is filed under Section 374(2) of the Cr. P. C. , praying to set aside the judgment and sentence dated 19. 10. 2015 and 21. 10. 2015 passed by the special judge and II Addl. Sessions Judge, Vijayapur, at Vijayapur in Special Case (POSCO) No. 21/2014, and acquit the appellant in the said case. This appeal is coming on for admission this day, the Court delivered the following: JUDGMENT The accused in Special Case (POCSO) No. 21/2014 on the file of II Addl. Sessions Judge, Vijaypur has come up in this appeal challenging the order of conviction and sentence. In the proceedings before Session's Court, charge sheet was filed against the appellant herein for the offence punishable U/Sec. 3(a) (b), 4, 5(m) and 6 of Protection of the Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and U/Sec. 376(f) of Indian Penal Code. The aforesaid charge sheet is filed based on a complaint wherein it is stated that on 6. 1. 2014 appellant herein is said to have sexually abused victim girl CW-4 namely Sujata who is aged about 8 years and resident of Ingalagi Tanda. On the ill-fated day when she had gone to attend nature call at about 6. 15 p. m. , in the evening, by luring the said child with chocolates and biscuits accused forcibly took her into the field of one Kulkarni wherein Jawar crop was standing. The accused is said to have made the child to lay on the ground, removed her under garment and slept on her. It is also accused that he inserted his finger into her vagina, pressed in it and bit her lips and subsequently committed rape on her. A complaint was filed in this behalf, wherein, investigation was conducted and thereafter charge sheet was filed and the matter was committed to Sessions wherein cognizance for the offence was taken on 18. 7. 2014. After the charges are framed, same was read over to him. Since he pleaded not guilty, matter was taken up for trial. On behalf of prosecution, in all 17 witnesses are examined and 26 documents are marked. The material objects produced at MOs-1 to 5 are also taken into consideration. In the Court below, P. Ws. 6 and 8 are the parent of victim girl. It is seen that P. Ws. 9, 10, 11 and 12 have turned hostile and did not support the prosecution. Even P. Ws. 1 and 7 panch witnesses to the spot panchanama Ex. P-1 and seizure panchanama Ex. P-2 except admitting their signature on said panchanamas, they have not supported the case. Therefore, in the Court below, they were treated as hostile witnesses and they were subjected to cross examination by prosecution. It is seen, in this proceedings that even the complainant - father of victim himself has turned hostile. However, after he was subjected to cross examination, the learned Session's Judge was able to elicit from him and as well as other witnesses that the injuries suffered by the child P. W. 2 Sujata to her private part is not due to fall in the field and it is due to heinous act committed by the accused. On going through the judgment impugned, it is clearly seen that the prosecution and learned Sessions Judge has taken enormous strain to see that the truth is elicited from the victim as well as her family members to reconstruct the whole incident to bring the guilt of accused to the books, when all of them conspired together to bury the truth either for fear of shame in the society or fearing retaliatory action from the accused. On giving careful consideration to the entire judgment of the Court below, one thing is clear that the manner in which the entire prosecution has sought to be suppressed not only by the witnesses but also by the family members considering the future of the victim girl who is aged about 8 years, this Court is sympathetic to the family of the victim who have not supported the prosecution, who have given false evidence against the interest of their own child who is victim of sexual abuse. In any event, with proper appreciation of material on record, the Session's Court has been able to bring the accused to books and convict him for the offences punishable under the aforesaid provisions. On careful consideration of the judgement impugned as well as the material available in the form of evidence of the witnesses more particularly their cross examination, it is clearly seen that no grounds are made out by the accused in Spl. Case (POCSO) No. 21/2014 to convert the finding of Session's Court in the aforesaid judgment to convert the conviction to an acquittal and also to disturb the sentence imposed on him. In fact this Court feels that considering the nature of offences, the punishment imposed is liberal one. In any event, since there is no appeal on behalf of the prosecution challenging the sentence disturbing the sentence does not arise. Accordingly, this appeal filed by the accused is hereby dismissed.

[case 77]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 2004 of 2025 Applicant: - Dharmdev Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Home U. P. Lko. And 3 Others Counsel for Applicant: - Yugal Kishor Tripathi Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Rajesh Singh Chauhan. J. Heard Sri Yugal Kishor Tripathi, learned counsel for the applicant and Sri Rajesh Kumar, learned A. G. A. for the State. Sri Ram Suphal, Advocate has filed Vakalatnama on behalf of informant/complainant, the same is taken on record. The complainant and prosecutrix both are present in the Court. As per learned counsel for the applicant, the present applicant is languishing in jail since 29. 04. 2024 in Case Crime No. 03/2023 of 2024, under Sections 363, 366, 376(3) IPC and Section 5J2/6 of POCSO Act, Police Station- Manikpur, District- Pratapgarh. He has been falsely implicated in this case as he has not committed any offence as alleged in the prosecution story. Learned counsel for the applicant has stated that under bonafide impression to the effect that the prosecutrix has attained the marriageable age, both have got married since they were in relation. From the aforesaid wedlock, they have been blessed one baby girl, who is presently aged about one and half years. The prosecutrix has not levelled any allegation against the present applicant and presently she is living with the family members of the applicant. The present applicant is having no prior criminal history of any kind whatsoever. Chargesheet has been filed. The prosecutrix, who is present in the Court alongwith her baby girl has submitted that she is present living in the house of the present applicant alongwith her baby girl and she has not grievance against the present applicant or his family members. The complainant, namely, Devkali has also stated that her daughter has married with applicant- Dharmdev and presently living with the family members of the applicant and she has no grievance against the applicant. On the other hand, learned Additional Government Advocate has opposed the prayer for bail of the present applicant by submitting that when the incident took place, the prosecutrix was minor therefore, the FIR was lodged under various Sections of IPC as well as POCSO Act, wherein the trial is going on, therefore, any appropriate direction may be issued in the interest of the prosecutrix. On that, learned counsel for the applicant has stated that he shall look after the prosecutrix and his child properly and if, he is released on bail, he shall abide by all terms and conditions of bail, and shall not misuse the liberty of bail and shall also cooperate with the trial proceedings. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and having perused the material available on record; considering the fact that the prosecutrix, who is present in the Court alongwith her baby girl has submitted that she is presently living in the house of the present applicant alongwith her baby girl and she has not grievance against the present applicant or his family members and the applicant shall look after the prosecutrix and his child properly and if, he is released on bail, he shall abide by all terms and conditions of bail, and shall not misuse the liberty of bail and shall also cooperate with the trial proceedings; the present applicant is having no prior criminal history of any kind whatsoever; without expressing any opinion on merits of the case, I am of the view that the present applicant may be enlarged on bail. Accordingly, the instant bail application is allowed. Let the applicant (Dharmdev), involved in aforesaid case crime be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions which are being imposed in the interest of justice: - (i) The applicant shall file an undertaking to the effect that he shall not seek any adjournment on the dates fixed for evidence when the witnesses are present in court. In case of default of this condition, it shall be open for the trial court to treat it as abuse of liberty of bail and pass orders in accordance with law. (ii) The applicant shall remain present before the trial court on each date fixed, either personally or through his counsel. In case of his absence, without sufficient cause, the trial court may proceed against him under Section 229-A of the Indian Penal Code. (iii) In case, the applicant misuses the liberty of bail during trial and in order to secure his presence proclamation under Section 82 Cr. P. C. may be issued and if the applicant fails to appear before the court on the date fixed in such proclamation, then, the trial court shall initiate proceedings against him, in accordance with law, under Section 174-A of the Indian Penal Code. (iv) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the trial court on the dates fixed for (i) opening of the case, (ii) framing of charge and (iii) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. If in the opinion of the trial court absence of the applicant is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the trial court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against him in accordance with law. (v) The applicant shall not leave the country without permission of the Court concerned. Order Date: - 5. 3. 2025

[case 78]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the proceedings in Spl. S. C. No. 151 of 2022 on the file of the Principal Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under POCSO Act, Madurai. The case of the prosecution is that the petitioner is the relative of victim. When the victim was studying 11th standard, the petitioner married the victim and out of the wedlock, she became pregnant. Thereafter, the victim was admitted at Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, and she gave birth to a male child on 09. 08. 2021. Based on the information given by the hospital authorities, the second respondent lodged a complaint against the petitioner. Hence the case. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner as well as the learned counsel appearing for the third respondent submitted that now, the petitioner and the third respondent married living together as husband and wife with their child, issues amicable resolved and the third respondent is not willing to proceed further with the criminal case against the petitioner. Today, when the matter was taken up for hearing, a joint Memo of Compromise filed before this Court signed by the petitioner and the third respondent and their respective counsels. The petitioner and the third respondent are present before this Court, identified by the first respondent police, as well as by the learned counsels appearing for the parties. This Court enquired both the parties, satisfied that the parties have come to an amicable settlement between themselves on their own voluntarily without any compulsion. When this Court interacted with the third respondent, she confirmed her marriage with the petitioner and both living as husband and wife happily along with their child and she intends not to pursue the criminal proceedings against the petitioner. The case has been registered for offences under Section 9 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and Sections 5(1), 5(j)(ii) r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act. It is settled law that the High Court has inherent power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to quash the criminal proceedings even for the offences which are not compoundable under Section 320 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the parties have settled their dispute between themselves. However, while quashing the criminal proceedings, based on the settlement arrived at between the parties, the High Court should act with caution and the power should be exercised sparingly only in order to secure the ends of justice and also to prevent abuse of process of any Court. Further, the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of K. Dhandapani Vs. The State by the Inspector of Police reported in 2022 SCC Online SC 1056, has held as follows: In the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, we are of the considered view that the conviction and sentence of the appellant who is maternal uncle of the prosecutrix deserves to be set aside in view of the subsequent events that have been brought to the notice of this Court. This Court cannot shut its eyes to the ground reality and disturb the happy family life of the appellant and the prosecutrix. We have been informed about the custom in Tamilnadu of the marriage of a girl with the maternal uncle. The legal position expressed by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Gian Singh vs. State of Punjab and another reported in (2012) 10 SCC 303 and Parbatbhai Aahir @ Parbatbhai Vs. State of Gujarat) reported in (2017) 9 SCC 641 were taken into consideration. Keeping the above principles in mind, let us now consider the instant case as to whether it is a fit case to quash the criminal proceedings based on the settlement arrived at between the parties. In the case at hand, though the petitioner is charged with for the offences punishable Section 9 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and Sections 5(1), 5(j)(ii) r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act, now, the petitioner and the third respondent have amicably resolved their dispute between themselves. In this regard, the third respondent has also filed an affidavit. The petitioner is the sole breadwinner, the third respondent and child are solely depend on the income of the petitioner for their livelihood. The petitioner is taking care of the well being of the third respondent and child and they are showered with love and affection. Unless the conviction is set aside, the petitioner, third respondent and the child cannot lead a peaceful and happy family. Considering the welfare and wellbeing of the victim and the child, it would be appropriate to accept the attending circumstances and the compromise arrived. In view of the compromise between the parties, the possibility of conviction is also remote and bleak. In the above circumstances, continuity of the criminal proceedings would only cause oppression and prejudice to the parties, hence, in order to secure the ends of justice, this Court is inclined to quash the criminal proceedings. Accordingly, this Criminal Original Petition is allowed and the criminal proceedings initiated against the petitioner in Spl. S. C. No. 151 of 2022 on the file of the Principal Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under POCSO Act, Madurai, is quashed and the terms of joint compromise memo and affidavit filed by the third respondent shall form part and parcel of this order. Consequently, connected Miscellaneous Petition is closed.

[case 79]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD R/CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION NO. 19565 of 2021 KISHAN @ KISHLO KALUBHAI CHAROLA Versus STATE OF GUJARAT Appearance: MR HARNISH V DARJI(3705) for the Applicant(s) No. 1 for the Respondent(s) No. 2 MS. SHRUTI PATHAK APP(2) for the Respondent(s) No. 1 CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ILESH J. VORA Date: 29/10/2021 ORAL ORDER [1] Mr. R. R. Joshi, learned advocate states that he has instructions to appear for and on behalf of respondent No. 2 - original complainant. He is permitted to file his Vakaltnama. [2] Considering the issues involved in the present application and with consent of the learned advocates appearing for the respective parties as well as considering the fact that the dispute amongst the applicant and respondent No. 2 has been resolved amicably, this application is taken up for final disposal forthwith. [3] Rule. Learned Additional Public Prosecutor as well as learned advocate appearing for the Complainant waive service of Rule on behalf of the respective respondents. [4] By way of this application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Code'), the applicant has prayed for quashing and setting aside F. I. R. bearing C. R. No. I-12 of 2019 registered with Chalala Police Station, Dist. Amreli for the offence punishable under Sections363, 376&366 of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 4&18 of the POCSO Act and to quash all other consequential proceedings arising out of the aforesaid FIR qua the applicant. [5] Heard learned advocates for the respective parties. [6] Learned advocate for the applicant submits that the applicant and victim have decided to live together as a husband and wife but due to some technicality of the age, the marriage could not be performed. Due to their relationship, a child is borne. He further submits that the applicant's family has also accepted the victim as daughter-in-law and her child and the the applicant's name is shown as father in the Birth Certificate issued by the Competent Authority. In support of his submissions, he has annexed Birth Certificate to the petition. [7] Both the learned advocates would submit that during the pendency of present application, the matter is amicably settled amongst the parties and therefore, any further continuation of the proceedings pursuant to the impugned FIR would create hardship to the parties and further continuation of the proceedings would amount to abuse of process of law. [8] Learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing for the State has opposed the present application mainly on the ground that the victim is aged about 17 years and offence is serious in nature, therefore, complaint in question may not be quashed and the present application may be rejected. In support of her submissions, she relied upon the judgment in the case of The State of Madhya Pradesh Vs. Laxminarayan reported in (2019) 5 SCC 688. [9] Learned advocate for respondent No. 2 has placed on record the settlement Affidavit duly sworn by the original complainant. The same is taken on record. The respondent No. 2 has filed affidavit stating inter-alia the fact that the matter is amicably settled with the applicant. The Respondent No. 2 as well as victim are present in person before the Court and are identified by learned advocate for respondent No. 2 and also admits the contents of the Affidavit. On inquiry made by the Court, the respondent No. 2 has declared before this Court that the dispute between the applicant(s) and respondent No. 2 is resolved and therefore, now the grievance stands redressed. It is therefore submitted that the present application may be allowed. [10] This Court has taken into consideration the fact that the victim is residing with the applicant and the parents of the applicant have also accepted as daughter-in-law and her child. The Birth Certificate of the Child is also on record which shows the applicant's name as father of the child. This Court has also taking into consideration the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case as well as facts of settlement and law laid down by the Apex Court [Gian Singh Vs. State of Punjab & Anr. , reported in (2012) 10 SCC 303, Madan Mohan Abbot Vs. State of Punjab, reported in (2008) 4 SCC 582, Nikhil Merchant Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation & Anr. , reported in 2009 (1) GLH 31, Manoj Sharma Vs. State & Ors. , reported in 2009 (1) GLH 190 and Narinder Singh & Ors. Vs. State of Punjab & Anr. reported in 2014 (2) Crime 67 (SC), ] this Court is of the considered view that further continuation of the criminal proceedings in relation to the impugned FIR would nothing but unnecessary harassment to the parties and trial thereon would be futile and further continuation of the proceedings would amount to abuse of process of law. Thus, to secure the ends of justice, the impugned FIR is required to be quashed and set aside in exercise of powers conferred under Section 482 of the Code. [11] Resultantly, this application is allowed and the impugned FIR bearing C. R. No. I-12 of 2019 registered with Chalala Police Station, Dist. Amreli filed against present applicant is hereby quashed and set aside and all other proceedings arising out of the aforesaid FIR are also quashed and set aside qua the applicant. Accordingly, Rule is made absolute. Direct service permitted.

[case 80]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed, invoking Section 528 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, seeking orders to call for the records in J. J. No. 120 of 2022, on the file of the Juvenile Justice Board, Sivagangai, and quash the same as illegal, improper and abuse of process of law. The case of the prosecution is that the petitioner on giving false promise to marry the victim/third respondent, sexually assaulted her without her consent and they were eloped. Based on the complaint given by the defacto complainant, who is the mother of the victim, both were secured by the Child Line and the victim was handed over to the TMSS home, Trichy. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner would submit that the second respondent lodged a complaint before the first respondent and F. I. R. registered in Crime No. 31 of 2022, after investigation, final report filed, the same taken cognizance in J. J. No. 120 of 2022, on the file of the Juvenile Justice Board, Sivagangai, for the offences under Sections 3(2)(va) of SC/ST Act, 363 of IPC r/w Sections 5(1) & 6 of POCSO Act against the petitioner. It is further submitted that the petitioner is a final year student doing Diploma Course in Government Polytechnic College. He was also a minor. Without knowing the consequences, at the adolescent age on compulsion he accompanied the victim and now he realised his mistake. Now, the victim/third respondent has also married. If the case is pending, it would affect the future of the petitioner. The petitioner is the first person in his family, who had reached to this level of education. The case is under trial. By passage of time, the parties have decided to bury their hatchet and compromise the dispute amicably among themselves. Now, both realized their mistakes, reconciled and second respondent agreeing to withdraw the complaint, not willing to pursue the case. A Joint Memo of Compromise, dated 31. 01. 2025 filed before this Court signed by the petitioner and the respondents 2 and 3 and their respective counsels. The petitioner and the respondents 2 and 3 present before this Court, identified by Mr. S. Mala, SSSI, All Women Police Station, Karaikudi, Sivagangai District, as well as by the learned counsels appearing for the parties. This Court enquired the parties, satisfied that the parties have come to an amicable settlement between themselves on their own voluntarily without any compulsion. The second respondent had stated that the victim got married and she is living happily. Therefore, she had intended to withdraw the complaint against the petitioner. Realising that at the adolescent age not knowing the consequences both found missing and complaint lodged, later on enquiry the defacto complainant realised that it is her daughter, who had faced such a situation due to emotional break down complaint given, reconciled to the reality now come forward to withdraw the complaint on own volition at not on compulsion or force. The case has been registered for offence under Section 3(2)(va) of SC/ST Act, 363 of IPC r/w Sections 5(1) & 6 of POCSO Act. It is settled law that the High Court has inherent power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to quash the criminal proceedings even for the offences which are not compoundable under Section 320 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the parties have settled their dispute between themselves. However, while quashing the criminal proceedings, based on the settlement arrived at between the parties, the High Court should act with caution and the power should be exercised sparingly only in order to secure the ends of justice and also to prevent abuse of process of any Court. The legal position expressed by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Gian Singh vs. State of Punjab and another reported in (2012) 10 SCC 303 and Parbatbhai Aahir @ Parbatbhai Vs. State of Gujarat) reported in (2017) 9 SCC 641 were taken into consideration. Keeping the above principles in mind, let us now consider the instant case as to whether it is a fit case to quash the criminal proceedings based on the settlement arrived at between the parties. In the case at hand, though the petitioner is charged with for the offences punishable under Section 3(2)(va) of SC/ST Act, 363 of IPC r/w Sections 5(1) & 6 of POCSO Act, now, the petitioner and the respondents 2 and 3 have amicably settled their dispute between themselves. The respondents 2 and 3 have also filed an affidavit stating that the victim had married and living happily. In view of the compromise between the parties, the possibility of conviction is also remote and bleak. In the above circumstances, continuity of the criminal proceedings would only cause oppression and prejudice to the parties, hence, in order to secure the ends of justice, this Court is inclined to quash the criminal proceedings. Accordingly, this Criminal Original Petition is allowed and the proceedings in J. J. No. 120 of 2022, on the file of the Juvenile Justice Board, Sivagangai, is quashed as against the petitioner. This case cannot be quoted against the petitioner in any manner for his future education, employment and career and the joint compromise memo shall form part and parcel of this order. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are closed.

[case 81]
This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of Cr. P. C. , praying to enlarge the petitioner on bail in Spl. Case NO. 12/2017 in Crime No. 73/2016 of Mahila Police Station,
Kalaburagi, which is registered for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 376(2)(n) of IPC and Sections 4, 6, 7, 11 and 12 of POCSO Act and also Section 10 of Child Marriage
Restraint Act. Brief facts leading to filing of the complaint are that, on 20. 04. 2016 at about 7. 00 p. m. as the complainant was in her house and there was nobody in the house, petitioner came to the house of the victim, threatened and kidnapped her and thereafter he took her to his uncle's house at Kalaburagi. On 02. 05. 2016, the sister of the accused Roopa, Mahadevi and uncle Sharanappa all together took her to Nagavi Yallamma temple at Chittapur Taluka and there they solemnized the marriage of the victim with accused forcibly. Thereafter, accused kept the victim girl in his house at Kalaburagi and there he forcibly had sexual intercourse with her and the mother of the accused also helped the accused by way of abusing him to keep her in the house. It is further alleged that accused used to sexually harass her and used to have forcible sexual intercourse with her. With the help of others, she escaped and subsequently on 14. 12. 2016 she filed a written complaint. On the basis of the said complaint, a case has been registered against the accused persons. I have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned Additional State Public Prosecutor appearing for respondent-State. The main grounds urged by the learned counsel for the petitioner are that the complaint is baseless and there is a delay in filing the complaint. The said complaint has been filed only with an intention to harass the petitioner. It is also contended that no marriage as alleged in the complaint has been taken place. It is also contended that already charge-sheet has been filed and the remaining accused persons have not been shown as accused. It is further contended that the medical certificate reveals that there is no offence as alleged in the complaint and there are no external injuries found on the victim girl. It is further contended that if the petitioner is detained in custody, it is going to affect his right. Further, it is contended that the petitioner is the permanent resident of Kalaburagi and he is the sole earning member. Further, it is contended that if the petitioner is released on bail, he is ready to abide by the conditions to be imposed by this Court and ready to offer sureties. On these grounds, he prays for allowing the petition. On the contrary, learned Additional State Public Prosecutor appearing for the respondent-State would contend that the petitioner by kidnapping the victim, forcibly got married and thereafter he had sexual assault on a minor girl, who is aged about 16 years. He would also contend that the victim girl has given statement before the Magistrate and the same has been recorded under Section 164 of Cr. P. C. and the learned Magistrate has also been shown as a party to the witness. He would further contend that in the statement of the victim, she has been categorically deposed that the petitioner has threatened and thereafter he had sexually assaulted her. He would further contend that because of the threat and other things the complaint was filed belatedly. At this juncture, if the petitioner is released on bail, he may tamper with the prosecution witnesses, he may abscond and he may not be available for trial. On these grounds, he prays for dismissal of the petition. I have gone through the copy of the complaint and other material produced along with the petition. By going through the contents of the complaint and other material, it indicates that the petitioner had kidnapped the victim on 20. 04. 2016, thereafter he got married her forcibly on 02. 05. 2016 and thereafter by threatening her he harassed her sexually and had a sexual intercourse with her. If the medical certificate is perused, it indicates that there is sexual assault has been made on the victim girl. Though the learned counsel for the petitioner would contend that there are no external injuries and other signs of sexual assault, but by going through the statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 of Cr. P. C. and the medical certificate, they corroborate with the sexual assault committed by the petitioner. When the petitioner has committed a sexual assault on a minor girl, under such circumstances, the said offence is considered to be serious and he does not deserve any consideration. As such, the bail petition stands dismissed. However, since the petitioner is in custody, the Trial Court is directed to expedite the matter.

[case 82]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 15617 of 2021 Applicant: - Sachin Kumar Opposite Party: - State of U. P. and Another Counsel for Applicant: - Dhirendra Kumar Srivastava, Rajiv Sisodia Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Shekhar Kumar Yadav, J. This matter is listed for hearing through video conferencing. Link has been sent to the respective learned counsels. Learned Counsel for the applicant and learned A. G. A for the State are connected through the link. Heard learned counsel for the applicant as well as learned A. G. A for the State and perused the record. By means of this application, the applicant who is involved in Case Crime No. 657 of 2020, under Sections 323, 363, 452 I. P. C. and 7/8 of the POCSO Act, Police Station Seohara, District Bijnor, is seeking enlargement on bail during the trial. Submission made by learned counsel for the applicant is that the applicant has been falsely implicated in the present case. He further submits that the applicant is nothing to do with the aforesaid offence and the present F. I. R. has been lodged due to love affair between the applicant and the victim. He further submits that on 28. 12. 2020 the victim came to the house of the applicant in the night but the family members of the applicant annoyed and requested the victim to go her house and when she declined to go her parents house she was given in the custody of the Child Welfare Committee, Bijnor. He further submits that as per medical report the age of the victim is about 18 years. He further submits that the applicant is a student and studying in B. A. -II year. He further submits that there is contradiction in the statement recorded under Section 161 Cr. P. C and 164 Cr. P. C. The applicant has no criminal history. He further submits that the applicant is innocent and he is languishing in jail since 31. 12. 2020. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that if the applicant is released on bail the applicant undertakes that he will not misuse the liberty of bail. Learned counsel for the informant as well as learned A. G. A opposed the prayer for bail but could not dispute the aforesaid facts and the legal submissions as argued by the learned counsel for the applicant. Keeping in view the nature of the offence, evidence, complicity of the accused and submissions of learned counsel for the parties, I am of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. Let the applicant Sachin Kumar, who is involved in Case Crime No. 657 of 2020, under Sections 323, 363, 452 I. P. C. and 7/8 of the POCSO Act, Police Station Seohara, District Bijnor, be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following conditions. Further, before issuing the release order, the sureties be verified. (i) THE APPLICANT SHALL FILE AN UNDERTAKING TO THE EFFECT THAT HE SHALL NOT SEEK ANY ADJOURNMENT ON THE DATE FIXED FOR EVIDENCE WHEN THE WITNESSES ARE PRESENT IN COURT. IN CASE OF DEFAULT OF THIS CONDITION, IT SHALL BE OPEN FOR THE TRIAL COURT TO TREAT IT AS ABUSE OF LIBERTY OF BAIL AND PASS ORDERS IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW. (ii) THE APPLICANT SHALL REMAIN PRESENT BEFORE THE TRIAL COURT ON EACH DATE FIXED, EITHER PERSONALLY OR THROUGH HIS COUNSEL. IN CASE OF HIS ABSENCE, WITHOUT SUFFICIENT CAUSE, THE TRIAL COURT MAY PROCEED AGAINST HIM UNDER SECTION 229-A IPC. (iii) IN CASE, THE APPLICANT MISUSES THE LIBERTY OF BAIL DURING TRIAL AND IN ORDER TO SECURE HIS PRESENCE PROCLAMATION UNDER SECTION 82 CR. P. C. , MAY BE ISSUED AND IF APPLICANT FAILS TO APPEAR BEFORE THE COURT ON THE DATE FIXED IN SUCH PROCLAMATION, THEN, THE TRIAL COURT SHALL INITIATE PROCEEDINGS AGAINST HIM, IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW, UNDER SECTION 174-A IPC. (iv) THE APPLICANT SHALL REMAIN PRESENT, IN PERSON, BEFORE THE TRIAL COURT ON DATES FIXED FOR (1) OPENING OF THE CASE, (2) FRAMING OF CHARGE AND (3) RECORDING OF STATEMENT UNDER SECTION 313 CR. P. C. IF IN THE OPINION OF THE TRIAL COURT ABSENCE OF THE APPLICANT IS DELIBERATE OR WITHOUT SUFFICIENT CAUSE, THEN IT SHALL BE OPEN FOR THE TRIAL COURT TO TREAT SUCH DEFAULT AS ABUSE OF LIBERTY OF BAIL AND PROCEED AGAINST HIM IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW. (v) THE TRIAL COURT MAY MAKE ALL POSSIBLE EFFORTS/ENDEAVOUR AND TRY TO CONCLUDE THE TRIAL WITHIN A PERIOD OF ONE YEAR AFTER THE RELEASE OF THE APPLICANT. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. It is made clear that observations made in granting bail to the applicant shall not in any way affect the learned trial Judge in forming his independent opinion based on the testimony of the witnesses. The party shall file computer generated copy of such order downloaded from the official website of High Court Allahabad. The computer generated copy of such order shall be self attested by the counsel of the party concerned. The concerned Court/Authority/Official shall verify the authenticity of such computerized copy of the order from the official website of High Court Allahabad and shall make a declaration of such verification in writing. Order Date: - 23. 6. 2021

[case 83]
Vishal Kannaujiaya vs State Of U. P. And Another on 2 December, 2021
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD
Case: - CRIMINAL REVISION No. - 31 of 2021
Revisionist: - Vishal Kannaujiaya
Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. And Another
Counsel for Revisionist: - Rajnish Shukla
Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A.
Hon'ble Vikas Budhwar, J.
1. This is a revision under Section 102 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (in short the J. J. Act, 2015), instituted against the order dated 26. 8. 2020 passed by the Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Gorakhpur in Case Crime no. 09 of 2020 (State Vs. Vishal Kannaujiaya), under Section 376 IPC read with Section 5/6 of the Prevention of Child from Sexual Offence Act, 2012, hereinafter referred to as the 'POCSO Act', P. S. Khajani, District Gorakhpur as well as the order dated 27. 11. 2020 passed by learned Addl. Sessions Judge/ Special Judge (POCSO Act), Court No. 1, Gorakhpur, in Criminal Appeal No. 62 of 2020, Vishal Kannaujiaya Vs. State of U. P. and others refusing the bail to the revisionist.
2. Brief facts of the case setforth by the revisionist are that the prosecution has alleged that the victim Miss Neeraj Kannaujiaya, daughter of Ram Laut Kannaujiaya is 17 years old, as whereas revisionist-juvenile being Master Vishal Kannaujiaya son of Rajesh Kannaujiaya was aged about 16 years, they were found wandering in a suspicious condition in Kasba Khajani on the unlucky day, i. e, 28. 12. 2019. On interception, the juvenile as well as the victim Neeraj Kannaujiaya apprised the police personnel that they were not willing to go to their respective houses as they wanted to live together. Faced with these circumstances, one Sri Rudra Pratap Singh, Sub-Inspector, P. S. Khajani, District Gorakhpur made a communication to the designated official of Child Welfare Committee, District Gorakhpur clearly narrating the fact that the juvenile and the victim both of them were not agreeable to go to their respective houses and further despite the fact that information was provided to the parents of the juvenile and the victim, none of them approached them to take custody of the juvenile or the victim and thus request was being sought to be made to them that the victim as well as the revisionist be taken into the custody of the Child Welfare Committee, District Gorakhpur for their upkeep, care and betterment.
3. It appears that on the same day, i. e. , on 28. 12. 2019, G. D. entry was also made narrating the facts, which had been communicated on 28. 12. 2019 by the Sub-Inspector, P. S. Khajani, Gorakhpur to the Child Welfare Committee, Gorakhpur. Thereafter, FIR was lodged by one Sri Krishna Sinha being the member of the Child Welfare Committee, Gorakhpur before the police station Khajani, Gorakhpur dated 16. 1. 2020 registered as Case Crime no. 0009 of 2020 with an allegation that on 28. 12. 2019 itself the police officials found the revisionist and the victim together in suspicious condition and further on medical examination, it revealed that UPT was positive depicting that she was pregnant. It was also alleged that the father of the victim had not lodged the FIR because the victim was a minor and that will create negative impact upon the character of the victim. Statement of the complainant being Sri Krishna Sinha, Chairman / Member, Child Welfare Committee, District Gorakhpur was recorded on 17. 1. 2020 under Section 161 CrPC, wherein the same facts were reiterated, which already found place in the FIR. It has also come on record that despite being request administered to the parents of the victim, as well as the victim for getting her medically examined, she refused for the same. The statement of the victim was also recorded under Section 164 CrPC, a certified copy of the same is at page 70 of the paper book, wherein the victim has deposed that she is of 17 years of age and she is in love with the revisionist for the past three months and she according to her sweet will has married with the revisionist. Consequent to the initiation of the proceedings emanating from the FIR, the revisionist is in observation home since 22. 7. 2020, and the proceeding has been registered as Case Crime no. 9 of 2020, under Section 376 IPC read with Section 5/6 of POCSO Act.
4. The Court of Addl. Sessions Judge/ Special Judge (POCSO Act), Court No. 1, Gorakhpur in the proceedings in Misc. Case No. 260 of 2020, CNR No. UPGK01-003610-2020 (State of U. P. Vs. Vishal Kannaujiaya) by virtue of the order dated 21. 7. 2020 declared the revisionist to be juvenile, while determining his date of birth to be 1. 4. 2003 holding that he was 16 years 9 months and 15 days of age, i. e. below the age of 18 on the date of occurrence of incident. It has also come on record that District Probation Officer submitted report to the Board on 6. 8. 2020, according to which there was no good ground entitling the revisionist to be bailed out in terms of the provisions contained under Section 12 of the J. J. Act, 2015. A police report dated 25. 8. 2020 was also submitted, which also does not find favour with the revisionist.

[case 84]
Vishal Kannaujiaya vs State Of U. P. And Another on 2 December, 2021
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD
Case: - CRIMINAL REVISION No. - 31 of 2021
Revisionist: - Vishal Kannaujiaya
Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. And Another
Counsel for Revisionist: - Rajnish Shukla
Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A.
Hon'ble Vikas Budhwar, J.
1. This is a revision under Section 102 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (in short the J. J. Act, 2015), instituted against the order dated 26. 8. 2020 passed by the Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Gorakhpur in Case Crime no. 09 of 2020 (State Vs. Vishal Kannaujiaya), under Section 376 IPC read with Section 5/6 of the Prevention of Child from Sexual Offence Act, 2012, hereinafter referred to as the 'POCSO Act', P. S. Khajani, District Gorakhpur as well as the order dated 27. 11. 2020 passed by learned Addl. Sessions Judge/ Special Judge (POCSO Act), Court No. 1, Gorakhpur, in Criminal Appeal No. 62 of 2020, Vishal Kannaujiaya Vs. State of U. P. and others refusing the bail to the revisionist.
2. Brief facts of the case setforth by the revisionist are that the prosecution has alleged that the victim Miss Neeraj Kannaujiya, daughter of Ram Laut Kannaujiya is 17 years old, as whereas revisionist-juvenile being Master Vishal Kannaujiaya son of Rajesh Kannaujiaya was aged about 16 years, they were found wandering in a suspicious condition in Kasba Khajani on the unlucky day, i. e, 28. 12. 2019. On interception, the juvenile as well as the victim Neeraj Kannaujiaya apprised the police personnel that they were not willing to go to their respective houses as they wanted to live together. Faced with these circumstances, one Sri Rudra Pratap Singh, Sub-Inspector, P. S. Khajani, District Gorakhpur made a communication to the designated official of Child Welfare Committee, District Gorakhpur clearly narrating the fact that the juvenile and the victim both of them were not agreeable to go to their respective houses and further despite the fact that information was provided to the parents of the juvenile and the victim, none of them approached them to take custody of the juvenile or the victim and thus request was being sought to be made to them that the victim as well as the revisionist be taken into the custody of the Child Welfare Committee, District Gorakhpur for their upkeep, care and betterment.
3. It appears that on the same day, i. e. , on 28. 12. 2019, G. D. entry was also made narrating the facts, which had been communicated on 28. 12. 2019 by the Sub-Inspector, P. S. Khajani, Gorakhpur to the Child Welfare Committee, Gorakhpur. Thereafter, FIR was lodged by one Sri Krishna Sinha being the member of the Child Welfare Committee, Gorakhpur before the police station Khajani, Gorakhpur dated 16. 1. 2020 registered as Case Crime no. 0009 of 2020 with an allegation that on 28. 12. 2019 itself the police officials found the revisionist and the victim together in suspicious condition and further on medical examination, it revealed that UPT was positive depicting that she was pregnant. It was also alleged that the father of the victim had not lodged the FIR because the victim was a minor and that will create negative impact upon the character of the victim. Statement of the complainant being Sri Krishna Sinha, Chairman / Member, Child Welfare Committee, District Gorakhpur was recorded on 17. 1. 2020 under Section 161 CrPC, wherein the same facts were reiterated, which already found place in the FIR. It has also come on record that despite being request administered to the parents of the victim, as well as the victim for getting her medically examined, she refused for the same. The statement of the victim was also recorded under Section 164 CrPC, a certified copy of the same is at page 70 of the paper book, wherein the victim has deposed that she is of 17 years of age and she is in love with the revisionist for the past three months and she according to her sweet will has married with the revisionist. Consequent to the initiation of the proceedings emanating from the FIR, the revisionist is in observation home since 22. 7. 2020, and the proceeding has been registered as Case Crime no. 9 of 2020, under Section 376 IPC read with Section 5/6 of POCSO Act.
4. The Court of Addl. Sessions Judge/ Special Judge (POCSO Act), Court No. 1, Gorakhpur in the proceedings in Misc. Case No. 260 of 2020, CNR No. UPGK01-003610-2020 (State of U. P. Vs. Vishal Kannaujiaya) by virtue of the order dated 21. 7. 2020 declared the revisionist to be juvenile, while determining his date of birth to be 1. 4. 2003 holding that he was 16 years 9 months and 15 days of age, i. e. below the age of 18 on the date of occurrence of incident. It has also come on record that District Probation Officer submitted report to the Board on 6. 8. 2020, according to which there was no good ground entitling the revisionist to be bailed out in terms of the provisions contained under Section 12 of the J. J. Act, 2015. A police report dated 25. 8. 2020 was also submitted, which also does not find favour with the revisionist.

[case 85]
Vishal Kannaujiaya vs State Of U. P. And Another on 2 December, 2021
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD
Case: - CRIMINAL REVISION No. - 31 of 2021
Revisionist: - Vishal Kannaujiaya
Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. And Another
Counsel for Revisionist: - Rajnish Shukla
Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A.
Hon'ble Vikas Budhwar, J.
1. This is a revision under Section 102 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (in short the J. J. Act, 2015), instituted against the order dated 26. 8. 2020 passed by the Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Gorakhpur in Case Crime no. 09 of 2020 (State Vs. Vishal Kannaujiaya), under Section 376 IPC read with Section 5/6 of the Prevention of Child from Sexual Offence Act, 2012, hereinafter referred to as the 'POCSO Act', P. S. Khajani, District Gorakhpur as well as the order dated 27. 11. 2020 passed by learned Addl. Sessions Judge/ Special Judge (POCSO Act), Court No. 1, Gorakhpur, in Criminal Appeal No. 62 of 2020, Vishal Kannaujiaya Vs. State of U. P. and others refusing the bail to the revisionist.
2. Brief facts of the case setforth by the revisionist are that the prosecution has alleged that the victim Miss Neeraj Kannaujiya, daughter of Ram Laut Kannaujiya is 17 years old, as whereas revisionist-juvenile being Master Vishal Kannaujiaya son of Rajesh Kannaujiaya was aged about 16 years, they were found wandering in a suspicious condition in Kasba Khajani on the unlucky day, i. e, 28. 12. 2019. On interception, the juvenile as well as the victim Neeraj Kannaujiya apprised the police personnel that they were not willing to go to their respective houses as they wanted to live together. Faced with these circumstances, one Sri Rudra Pratap Singh, Sub-Inspector, P. S. Khajani, District Gorakhpur made a communication to the designated official of Child Welfare Committee, District Gorakhpur clearly narrating the fact that the juvenile and the victim both of them were not agreeable to go to their respective houses and further despite the fact that information was provided to the parents of the juvenile and the victim, none of them approached them to take custody of the juvenile or the victim and thus request was being sought to be made to them that the victim as well as the revisionist be taken into the custody of the Child Welfare Committee, District Gorakhpur for their upkeep, care and betterment.
3. It appears that on the same day, i. e. , on 28. 12. 2019, G. D. entry was also made narrating the facts, which had been communicated on 28. 12. 2019 by the Sub-Inspector, P. S. Khajani, Gorakhpur to the Child Welfare Committee, Gorakhpur. Thereafter, FIR was lodged by one Sri Krishna Sinha being the member of the Child Welfare Committee, Gorakhpur before the police station Khajani, Gorakhpur dated 16. 1. 2020 registered as Case Crime no. 0009 of 2020 with an allegation that on 28. 12. 2019 itself the police officials found the revisionist and the victim together in suspicious condition and further on medical examination, it revealed that UPT was positive depicting that she was pregnant. It was also alleged that the father of the victim had not lodged the FIR because the victim was a minor and that will create negative impact upon the character of the victim. Statement of the complainant being Sri Krishna Sinha, Chairman / Member, Child Welfare Committee, District Gorakhpur was recorded on 17. 1. 2020 under Section 161 CrPC, wherein the same facts were reiterated, which already found place in the FIR. It has also come on record that despite being request administered to the parents of the victim, as well as the victim for getting her medically examined, she refused for the same. The statement of the victim was also recorded under Section 164 CrPC, a certified copy of the same is at page 70 of the paper book, wherein the victim has deposed that she is of 17 years of age and she is in love with the revisionist for the past three months and she according to her sweet will has married with the revisionist. Consequent to the initiation of the proceedings emanating from the FIR, the revisionist is in observation home since 22. 7. 2020, and the proceeding has been registered as Case Crime no. 9 of 2020, under Section 376 IPC read with Section 5/6 of POCSO Act.
4. The Court of Addl. Sessions Judge/ Special Judge (POCSO Act), Court No. 1, Gorakhpur in the proceedings in Misc. Case No. 260 of 2020, CNR No. UPGK01-003610-2020 (State of U. P. Vs. Vishal Kannaujiaya) by virtue of the order dated 21. 7. 2020 declared the revisionist to be juvenile, while determining his date of birth to be 1. 4. 2003 holding that he was 16 years 9 months and 15 days of age, i. e. below the age of 18 on the date of occurrence of incident. It has also come on record that District Probation Officer submitted report to the Board on 6. 8. 2020, according to which there was no good ground entitling the revisionist to be bailed out in terms of the provisions contained under Section 12 of the J. J. Act, 2015. A police report dated 25. 8. 2020 was also submitted, which also does not find favour with the revisionist.

[case 86]
Vishal Kannaujiaya vs State Of U. P. And Another on 2 December, 2021
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD
Case: - CRIMINAL REVISION No. - 31 of 2021
Revisionist: - Vishal Kannaujiaya
Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. And Another
Counsel for Revisionist: - Rajnish Shukla
Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A.
Hon'ble Vikas Budhwar, J.
1. This is a revision under Section 102 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (in short the J. J. Act, 2015), instituted against the order dated 26. 8. 2020 passed by the Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Gorakhpur in Case Crime no. 09 of 2020 (State Vs. Vishal Kannaujiaya), under Section 376 IPC read with Section 5/6 of the Prevention of Child from Sexual Offence Act, 2012, hereinafter referred to as the 'POCSO Act', P. S. Khajani, District Gorakhpur as well as the order dated 27. 11. 2020 passed by learned Addl. Sessions Judge/ Special Judge (POCSO Act), Court No. 1, Gorakhpur, in Criminal Appeal No. 62 of 2020, Vishal Kannaujiaya Vs. State of U. P. and others refusing the bail to the revisionist.
2. Brief facts of the case setforth by the revisionist are that the prosecution has alleged that the victim Miss Neeraj Kannaujiya, daughter of Ram Laut Kannaujiya is 17 years old, as whereas revisionist-juvenile being Master Vishal Kannaujiya son of Rajesh Kannaujiya was aged about 16 years, they were found wandering in a suspicious condition in Kasba Khajani on the unlucky day, i. e, 28. 12. 2019. On interception, the juvenile as well as the victim Neeraj Kannaujiya apprised the police personnel that they were not willing to go to their respective houses as they wanted to live together. Faced with these circumstances, one Sri Rudra Pratap Singh, Sub-Inspector, P. S. Khajani, District Gorakhpur made a communication to the designated official of Child Welfare Committee, District Gorakhpur clearly narrating the fact that the juvenile and the victim both of them were not agreeable to go to their respective houses and further despite the fact that information was provided to the parents of the juvenile and the victim, none of them approached them to take custody of the juvenile or the victim and thus request was being sought to be made to them that the victim as well as the revisionist be taken into the custody of the Child Welfare Committee, District Gorakhpur for their upkeep, care and betterment.
3. It appears that on the same day, i. e. , on 28. 12. 2019, G. D. entry was also made narrating the facts, which had been communicated on 28. 12. 2019 by the Sub-Inspector, P. S. Khajani, Gorakhpur to the Child Welfare Committee, Gorakhpur. Thereafter, FIR was lodged by one Sri Krishna Sinha being the member of the Child Welfare Committee, Gorakhpur before the police station Khajani, Gorakhpur dated 16. 1. 2020 registered as Case Crime no. 0009 of 2020 with an allegation that on 28. 12. 2019 itself the police officials found the revisionist and the victim together in suspicious condition and further on medical examination, it revealed that UPT was positive depicting that she was pregnant. It was also alleged that the father of the victim had not lodged the FIR because the victim was a minor and that will create negative impact upon the character of the victim. Statement of the complainant being Sri Krishna Sinha, Chairman / Member, Child Welfare Committee, District Gorakhpur was recorded on 17. 1. 2020 under Section 161 CrPC, wherein the same facts were reiterated, which already found place in the FIR. It has also come on record that despite being request administered to the parents of the victim, as well as the victim for getting her medically examined, she refused for the same. The statement of the victim was also recorded under Section 164 CrPC, a certified copy of the same is at page 70 of the paper book, wherein the victim has deposed that she is of 17 years of age and she is in love with the revisionist for the past three months and she according to her sweet will has married with the revisionist. Consequent to the initiation of the proceedings emanating from the FIR, the revisionist is in observation home since 22. 7. 2020, and the proceeding has been registered as Case Crime no. 9 of 2020, under Section 376 IPC read with Section 5/6 of POCSO Act.
4. The Court of Addl. Sessions Judge/ Special Judge (POCSO Act), Court No. 1, Gorakhpur in the proceedings in Misc. Case No. 260 of 2020, CNR No. UPGK01-003610-2020 (State of U. P. Vs. Vishal Kannaujiya) by virtue of the order dated 21. 7. 2020 declared the revisionist to be juvenile, while determining his date of birth to be 1. 4. 2003 holding that he was 16 years 9 months and 15 days of age, i. e. below the age of 18 on the date of occurrence of incident. It has also come on record that District Probation Officer submitted report to the Board on 6. 8. 2020, according to which there was no good ground entitling the revisionist to be bailed out in terms of the provisions contained under Section 12 of the J. J. Act, 2015. A police report dated 25. 8. 2020 was also submitted, which also does not find favour with the revisionist.

[case 87]
O R D E R 1. Vide this order I shall decide the appeal filed on behalf of the appellant/CCL 'S' through his father against the order dated 13. 01. 2017 passed by the Ld. Juvenile Justice BoardII Delhi wherein the Ld. JJB has directed that medical opinion with regard to the age of the CCL/appellant be obtained by a duly constituted medical board at Safdarjung Hospital. 2. The appellant/CCL was apprehended by the police during the investigation of FIR No. 351/16, PS Lajpat Nagar which was initially registered U/s 307/34 IPC but subsequently due to death of the victim, Section 302 IPC was also added in the said case. 3. The appellant/CCL claimed juvenility and consequently age determination inquiry was conducted by the Ld. JJBII. During the course of said inquiry it has come on record that after his apprehension the appellant/CCL had furnished his school documents in the nature of Scholar's register and transfer certificate Form purportedly issued from Chaudhary Beerpal Singh Inter College, Barah Bulandshahar, Uttar Pradesh. However the said document was found to be forged upon verification and subsequently yet another school record in the nature of school leaving certificate purportedly issued by Principal, Dhani Ram Sharma Public School, Makanpur Khadar, Post Dankaur District, Gautam Budh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh was filed alongwith bail application of appellant/CCL. In the age determination inquiry, the Ld. Board has examined CW1, Principal of the said school and CW2, Shri Harjit Panwar, Head Clerk, Transport Authority, Sheikh Sarai, New Delhi. The Ld. JJB also examined the appellant/CCL under section 165 Evidence Act wherein the CCL claimed that he had taken admission in Chaudhary Beerpal Singh Inter College, Barah Bulandshahar, Uttar Pradesh but he did not attend any classes. He was also examined in order to ascertain the documents on the basis of which he had set up his date of birth of 08. 09. 1992 before the Transport Authority at Delhi for procuring his driving licence but the Ld. Counsel for the CCL has contended that the said driving licence was procured through a tout/middle man. The Juvenile Justice Board placed reliance on the judgments titled, 'Om Prakash Vs. State of Rajasthan & Anr. ', 'Parag Bhati Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. ' and other judgment titled 'Mukarrab Vs. State of UP' to hold that the plea of minority set up by the CCL is not free from ambiguity and doubts. The JJB directed for obtaining the medical opinion based on scientific investigations as regards age of CCL. 4. The Ld. counsel for appellant has vehemently argued that once the Juvenile Justice Board had examined CW1, Principal of Dhani Ram Sharma Public School, Uttar Pradesh then there was no occasion for the JJB to order for constitution of medical board for seeking medical opinion in respect of the age of the appellant. 5. The Hon'ble Apex Court in 'Om Prakash vs. State of Rajasthan (Supra)' has decided about the approach to be adopted in age enquiry in grave and heinous offences and held that if there is a clear and unambiguous case in favour of the juvenile accused that he was a minor below the age of 18 years on the date of the incident, he would be entitled for this special protection under the Juvenile Justice Act. But when an accused commits a grave and heinous offence and attempts to take statutory shelter under the guise of being a minor, a casual or cavalier approach, cannot be permitted as the courts are enjoined upon to perform their duties with the object of protecting the confidence of common man in the institution entrusted with the administration of justice. 6. Thus in a circumstance where the Ld JJB cannot arrive at a conclusive finding regarding the age of the accused, the opinion of the medical experts based on xray and ossification test can be obtained. 7. The benefit of the principle of benevolent legislation attached to Juvenile Justice Act would thus apply to only such cases wherein the accused is held to be a juvenile based on cogent evidence regarding his minority as the benefit of the possibilities of two views regarding the age of the alleged accused involved in grave and serious offence cannot be allowed merely upon doubtful school admission record. 8. In view of the above discussions, the impugned order of the Ld. JJB for obtaining the medical opinion can not be faulted by appellant/CCL who gives forged and fabricated school documents regarding his age initially and also uses documents showing his majority for obtaining Driving Licence from Transport authority/Govt Dept but hides the said documents when involved in case of heinous nature.

[case 88]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V WEDNESDAY, THE 13TH DAY OF JUNE 2018 / 23RD JYAISHTA, 1940 Bail Appl. .No. 3288 of 2018 CRIME NO. 133/2018 OF FEROKE POLICE STATION, KOZHIKODE PETITIONER(S)/ACCUSED AKHIL. K AGED 27 YEARS, S/O. KRISHNAN, KAKKATHIRUTHI HOUSE, KADALUNDI P. O. VILLAGE BUS STOP, KOZHIKODE DISTRICT. BY ADV. SRI. ANOOP. V. NAIR RESPONDENT(S)/STATE & COMPLAINANT: 1. STATE OF KERALA REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM - 682 031. 2. THE SUB INSPECTOR OF POLICE, FAROKE POLICE STATION, KOZHIKODE DISTRICT - 673 001. R BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR SRI. AMJAD ALI THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 13-06-2018, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V, J B. A No. 3288 of 2018 Dated this the 13th day of June, 2018 ORDER 1. This application is filed under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 2. The applicant herein is the accused in Crime No. 133 of 2018 of Faroke Police Station, registered under Sections 306 and 376 of the IPC and Section 3 r/w Sec. 4, 9(m) r/w Sec. 10 and 11(v) r/w Sec. 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. 3. According to the prosecution, the applicant herein is a near relative of the victim girl who was just 15 years of age. They became close to each other and by misusing the relationship, started having a sexual relationship. He also used to take photographs and videos of their intimate acts. Later, their relationship became strained when the applicant started to have a liking towards another girl. It is alleged that when the victim questioned the applicant, he threatened her with the photographs and videos which were in his possession. This tormented the minor girl and she decided to take her own life. Initially, the Crime was registered on 23. 3. 2018 under Section 174 of the Cr. P. C. Later, on the basis of an additional statement given by the brother of the victim, the offences under the POCSO Act and other grave offences under the IPC were incorporated. 4. The learned counsel appearing for the applicant submits that a detailed statement of the brother of the victim as well as all the near relatives were recorded immediately after the registration of the Crime. No one had a case that the applicant herein had anything to do with the minor girl. It was much later, i. e. , on 3. 4. 2018, the allegation of sexual abuse and other grave acts were raised by the brother. The drastic turn around would affect the credibility of his version is the submission. Finally, it is submitted that the applicant was arrested on 05. 04. 2018 and having regard to the period of incarceration undergone and the stage of investigation, he be released. 5. The learned Public Prosecutor while opposing the prayer submitted that the allegations are extremely grave. The applicant herein is a near relative of the victim girl and there is no reason to believe the version of the brother of the victim. It is submitted that the applicant by feigning love have sexually abused the minor child. 6. I have considered the submissions advanced and have gone through the materials and records. Though the allegations are grave, the fact remains that the investigation has made much headway and has reached the final stages. As submitted by the learned counsel, the brother of the victim did not state before the investigating officer while furnishing his initial statement that on the day prior to the death of the child, he had an occasion to interact with her and that she had divulged about the horrendous acts committed by the applicant. 7. Having regard to the nature and gravity of the allegations, the material in support thereof, the stage of investigation and the period of incarceration undergone, I am of the view that the applicant can now be enlarged on bail. 8. In the result, this application will stand allowed. The applicant shall be released on bail on his executing a bond for Rs. 1, 00, 000/-(Rupees One lakh only) with two solvent sureties each for the like sum to the satisfaction of the court having jurisdiction. The above order shall be subject to the following conditions: 1). The applicant shall appear before the Investigating Officer on all Saturdays between 9 a. m. and 10 a. m. , for 2 months or till final report is filed, whichever is earlier. 2). The applicant shall not intimidate or attempt to influence the witnesses; nor shall he tamper with the evidence. 3). The applicant shall not commit any offence while he is on bail. 4). The applicant shall not leave India without the permission of the Court and if having passport, shall deposit the same before the Trial Court within a week; If release of the passport is required at a later period, the applicant shall be at liberty to move appropriate application before the Court having jurisdiction. In case of violation of any of the above conditions, the jurisdictional Court shall be empowered to consider the application for cancellation, if any, and pass appropriate orders in accordance with the law.

[case 89]
Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan vs State Of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. .. . on 4 March, 2025. THE HIGH COURT OF ORISSA AT CUTTACK CRLMC No. 3850 of 2024 (In the matter of an application under Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarika Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ) Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan. .. .. .. Petitioner -Versus- State of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. Opposite Parties For the Petitioner: Mr. Amitav Tripathy, Advocate For the Opposite Parties: Mr. Bibekananda Nayak, Additional Government Advocate CORAM: THE HONOURABLE SHRI JUSTICE SIBO SANKAR MISHRA Date of Hearing: 18. 02. 2025: : Date of Judgment: 04. 03. 2025 S. S. Mishra, J. The petitioner has filed the present application under Section 528 of the BNSS, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. , 1973, seeking quashing of the criminal proceedings arising out of Nayagarh P. S. Case No. 60 of 2022, corresponding to T. R. Case No. 135 of 2022, pending before the learned Additional Sessions Judge-cum-Special Court under the POCSO Act, Nayagarh. The prosecution case originates from an FIR lodged by the informant on 10. 05. 2022, alleging that on 09. 05. 2022, the petitioner kidnapped her minor daughter (Opposite Party No. 3) and took away gold ornaments and cash of Rs. 8, 000/- from their house. Based on these allegations, Nayagarh P. S. Case No. 60 of 2022 was registered under Sections 363/366/376(2)(n) of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act. Upon completion of the investigation, a charge sheet was filed, and the learned trial court took cognizance of the offences. During the pendency of the trial, the petitioner and Opposite Party No. 3 entered into a marital relationship after the latter attained the age of majority. They are now living together as husband and wife, and the informant (Opposite Party No. 2) has expressed her willingness not to prosecute the matter further. Mr. Tripathy, the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the entire case was based on a love affair between the petitioner and Opposite Party No. 3, which was opposed by their families due to religious differences. Consequently, both the petitioner and Opposite Party No. 3 left their respective homes and later solemnized their marriage. It is further submitted that at the time of the alleged incident, Opposite Party No. 3 was a minor, and due to that, the police rescued her and handed over to her parents. However, upon attaining majority, she voluntarily married the petitioner, and they are now living together happily. Learned Counsel for the petitioner contends that continuation of the criminal proceedings would serve no useful purpose, as the alleged victim does not support the prosecution case, and the matter has been amicably resolved between the parties. Even all the family members of the Opposite Party No. 3 after having agreed to the alliance, will not support prosecution case. It is also submitted that the informant (Opposite Party No. 2) has no objection to quash the proceedings and is ready to submit an affidavit before this Court stating the same. Mr. Nayak, the learned Additional Government Advocate appearing for the State of Odisha opposes the prayer for quashing on the ground that serious offences under Sections 376(2)(n) IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act have been invoked against the petitioner. Relying on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ramji Lal Bairwa & Another v. State of Rajasthan & Others, Mr. Nayak has contended that cases involving offences under the POCSO Act cannot be quashed merely on the basis of a compromise between the parties, as offences are considered to be the crimes against society at large and not just against an individual victim. He further submits that indulgence by this Court at this stage would cause defeat of the object of the POCSO Act. Learned counsel for the State submits that even if the victim and her family do not wish to proceed with the case, the gravity of the offence and the legislative intent behind the POCSO Act necessitate that the trial be conducted in accordance with law. The applicability of the principle laid down in the recent Judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Ramji Lal Bairwa v. State of Rajasthan (supra) vis--vis the present case needs to be delve upon. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under: - 'Thus, in unambiguous terms this Court held that before exercising the power under Section 482, Cr. P. C. the High Court must have due regard to the nature and gravity of the crime besides observing and holding that heinous and serious offences could not be quashed even though a victim or victim's family and the offender had settled the dispute. This Court held that such offences are not private in nature and have a serious impact on the society. .. ' With that analysis in mind, the implications of the case suggest that it is necessary to also consider the welfare of the child and the enactment's intent. Accordingly, justice should be served while taking into account each actors rights and standing in this complex case.

[case 90]
Rajendra Dantasena vs State Of Karnataka on 26 April, 2018. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 26th DAY OF APRIL, 2018 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE SREENIVAS HARISH KUMAR CRIMINAL PETITION No. 2059 OF 2018 BETWEEN: RAJENDRA DANTASENA, S/O BASANTH DANTASENA, AGED ABOUT 26 YEARS, PRESENTLY RESIDING AT RAJAREDDY BUILDING, 1ST MAIN, 2ND CROSS, NEXT TO RAYAN INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL, RAJAREDDY COLONY, KUNDALAHALLI, BANGALORE - 560 017. PERMANENT RESIDENT OF KUKSARA GRAMA, POST & THANA, KALAHANDI DISTRICT, ODISHA STATE - 751030. .. . PETITIONER (BY SRI MOHAMMED PASHA. C, ADV. ) AND: STATE OF KARNATAKA, BY H. A. L. POLICE, BANGALORE, REP BY SPP, HIGH COURT CAMPUS, BANGALORE - 560 001. .. .RESPONDENT (BY SRI K. NAGESHWARAPPA, HCGP) THIS CRIMINAL PETITION IS FILED UNDER SECTION 439 OF CR. P. C. PRAYING TO ENLARGE THE PETITIONER ON BAIL IN CR. NO. 172/2017 (SPL. C. C. NO. 282/2017) OF H. A. L. P. S. , BANGALORE FOR THE OFFENCE P/U/S 376 OF IPC AND SEC. 4, 6, 8 OF POCSO ACT. THIS CRIMINAL PETITION COMING ON FOR ORDERS THIS DAY, THE COURT DELIVERED THE FOLLOWING: ORDER THIS IS A PETITION UNDER SECTION 439 Cr. P. C. HE HAS SOUGHT BAIL IN CONNECTION WITH A CASE REGISTERED AGAINST HIM IN CRIME NO. 172/2017 FOR THE OFFENCES PUNISHABLE UNDER SECTION 376 OF IPC AND SECTIONS 4, 6 AND 8 OF POCSO ACT, 2012. 2. HEARD THE LEARNED COUNSEL FOR THE PETITIONER AND THE LEARNED HIGH COURT GOVERNMENT PLEADER APPEARING FOR THE RESPONDENT-STATE. 3. THE ALLEGATION FOUND AGAINST HIM IS THAT ON 20. 3. 2017 AT ABOUT 3. 00 P. M. HE TOOK THE DAUGHTER OF THE COMPLAINANT AGED ABOUT 4 YEARS TO HIS HOUSE AND SEXUALLY ABUSED HER. A REPORT IN THIS REGARD WAS MADE AT 11. 15 P. M. ON THE SAME DAY. 4. THE INVESTIGATION IS COMPLETED AND CHARGE SHEET IS FILED. THE LEARNED COUNSEL FOR THE PETITIONER SUBMITS THAT THE STATEMENT OF THE GIRL UNDER SECTION 161 Cr. P. C. WAS RECORDED BY THE INVESTIGATION OFFICER TAKING THE HELP OF THE SOCIAL WORKER, AS THE VICTIM GIRL DOES NOT KNOW KANNADA. THE COMPLAINANT IS NORTH INDIAN. THEN HE REFERS TO THE REMAND APPLICATION TO ARGUE THAT IF REALLY THE STATEMENT OF THE VICTIM GIRL WAS RECORDED IN THE POLICE STATION ON 21. 3. 2017, A MENTION OF IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN MADE IN THE REMAND APPLICATION DATED 22. 3. 2017. IT MAKES NO REFERENCE TO THE STATEMENT AND THEREFORE VERACITY OF THE STATEMENT RECORDED ON 21. 3. 2017 CAN BE DISBELIEVED. ACCORDING TO HIM, THERE WAS A MONEY TRANSACTION BETWEEN THE PETITIONER AND COMPLAINANT'S FATHER AND IT RESULTED IN A FALSE COMPLAINT MADE AGAINST PETITIONER AND HE ALSO SUBMITS THAT PETITIONER IS READY TO ABIDE BY ANY CONDITION THAT MAY BE IMPOSED BY THE COURT ON HIM AND THEREFORE HE PAYS FOR GRANTING BAIL. 5. LEARNED HCGP SUBMITS THAT THE PETITIONER IS FROM ANOTHER STATE, IF BAIL IS GRANTED THERE IS NO GUARANTEE THAT HE WOULD APPEAR BEFORE THE COURT AND THEREBY TRIAL WILL BE HAMPERED. 6. THE DEFENCE PUTFORTH BY THE PETITIONER COUNSEL ABOUT THE MONEY TRANSACTION CANNOT BE CONSIDERED. HOWEVER HIS ANOTHER POINT OF ARGUMENT IF THE STATEMENT OF THE GIRL RECORDED BY THE INVESTIGATING OFFICER ON 21. 3. 2017 IS SEEN, IT WAS RECORDED IN THE PRESENCE OF WOMEN SOCIAL WORKER. HER ASSISTANCE WAS TAKEN BECAUSE CHILD DID NOT KNOW KANNADA AND FOR THE PURPOSE OF TRANSLATION SHE WAS ASKED TO ASSIST DURING THE INVESTIGATION. IT FURTHER SHOWS THAT THE VICTIM GIRL ANSWERED IN GADWALI LANGUAGE. THE FATHER OF THE GIRL TRANSLATED THE ANSWERS GIVEN BY THE CHILD IN GADWALI LANGUAGE INTO HINDI AND THEREAFTER HINDI VERSION WAS TRANSLATED INTO KANNADA. THEREFORE, AT THIS STAGE THE INTEREST OF THE CHILD FATHER IS FORTHCOMING. MOREOVER THE REMAND APPLICATION DATED 23. 3. 2017 SHOULD HAVE CONTAINED A REFERENCE TO THE STATEMENT DATED 21. 3. 2017 AND IT MAKES NO REFERENCE TO THIS. IN THESE CIRCUMSTANCES, IT IS POSSIBLE TO INFER THAT VERACITY IN THE COMPLAINT AS WELL AS THE STATEMENT OF THE GIRL RECORDED ON 21. 3. 2017 CAN BE VIEWED WITH ASKANCE. PRIMA-FACIE MATERIALS CAN BE SAID NOT TO EXIST. THEREFORE, BAIL CAN BE GRANTED. SINCE THE PETITIONER IS FROM ODISSA STATE, HE NEEDS TO BE SUBJECTED TO STRINGENT CONDITIONS TO SEE THAT HE REGULARLY APPEARS BEFORE THE COURT TILL TRIAL IS CONCLUDED. HENCE, THE FOLLOWING; ORDER PETITION IS ALLOWED. THE PETITIONER IS ORDERED TO BE RELEASED ON BAIL IN CONNECTION WITH CRIME NO. 172/2017 REGISTERED BY THE RESPONDENT POLICE, SUBJECT TO HIS EXECUTING A BOND FOR A SUM OF RS. 1, 00, 000/- (RUPEES ONE LAKH ONLY) AND FURNISHING TWO SURETIES FOR THE LIKESUM TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE TRIAL COURT. PETITIONER IS ALSO SUBJECTED TO FOLLOWING CONDITIONS: (i) PETITIONER SHALL DEPOSIT RS. 50, 000/- TOWARDS CASH SECURITY ON HIS RELEASE ON BAIL. (ii) HE SHALL PROVIDE HIS ADDRESS PROOF TO THE TRIAL COURT. (iii) IF HE FAILS TO APPEAR BEFORE THE TRIAL COURT FOR THE PURPOSE OF TRIAL, THE SAME SHALL BE SERIOUSLY VIEWED BY THE COURT FOR CANCELLATION OF THE BAIL. (iv) HE SHALL NOT TAMPER WITH THE EVIDENCE COLLECTED BY THE INVESTIGATING OFFICER. (v) HE SHALL NOT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY THREATEN THE WITNESSES. (vi) HE SHALL REGULARLY APPEAR BEFORE THE COURT FOR TRIAL, WITHOUT FAIL. Sd/- JUDGE KLY/

[case 91]
The Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the First Information Report in Crime No. 31 of 2024 on the file of the first respondent Police. The case of the prosecution is that the second respondent and the petitioner are husband and wife. Due to some misunderstanding, the second respondent/defacto complainant left her husband and daughter. Taking advantage of the same, the petitioner on drunken mood sexually abused the victim girl/daughter. Hence, the complaint. When the matter is taken up for hearing today, the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner would submit that the second respondent has lodged a complaint before the first respondent Police and on that basis, F. I. R. came to be registered in Crime No. 31 of 2024, dated 22. 07. 2024 for the offences under Sections 11(1) and 12 of Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, against the petitioner. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner as well as the learned counsel appearing for the second respondent submitted that now, the petitioner and the second respondent have settled the dispute between themselves amicably and the second respondent is not willing to proceed further with the criminal case. Today, when the matter was taken up for hearing a joint Memo of Compromise filed before this Court signed by the petitioner and the second respondent and their respective counsels. The petitioner and the second respondent present before this Court, identified by Ms. S. Bagavathy, WSSI, AWPS, Palayamkottai, Tirunelveli City, as well as by the learned counsels appearing for the parties. This Court enquired both the parties, satisfied that the parties have come to an amicable settlement between themselves on their own voluntarily without any compulsion. The second respondent had stated that she and the petitioner are husband and wife and considering their children' future, she intends to withdraw the complaint against the petitioner. She has also filed filed an affidavit. The relevant portion of the affidavit reads as follows: . .. .. .. .. .. .4. It is submitted that the petitioner herein is my husband, out of wedlock we have blessed with one male and one female child. During my matrimonial life some misunderstanding were arose between I and the petitioner. Therefore, I lodged complaint against the petitioner. Now by taking consideration of the future life of our children I and the petitioner amicably settle the entire issue without making any allegations each other. As a result, I show my intent to drop the criminal proceedings pending against the petitioner herein. In view of the same, I have no objection to quash the FIR in Crime NO. 31 of 2024 on the file of the first respondent dated 22. 07. 2024. .. .. .. .. .. .. . The case has been registered for offences under Sections 11(1) and 12 of Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. It is settled law that the High Court has inherent power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to quash the criminal proceedings even for the offences which are not compoundable under Section 320 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the parties have settled their dispute between themselves. However, while quashing the criminal proceedings, based on the settlement arrived at between the parties, the High Court should act with caution and the power should be exercised sparingly only in order to secure the ends of justice and also to prevent abuse of process of any Court. The legal position expressed by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Gian Singh vs. State of Punjab and another reported in (2012) 10 SCC 303 and Parbatbhai Aahir @ Parbatbhai Vs. State of Gujarat) reported in (2017) 9 SCC 641 were taken into consideration. Keeping the above principles in mind, let us now consider the instant case as to whether it is a fit case to quash the criminal proceedings based on the settlement arrived at between the parties. In the case at hand, though FIR has been registered for the offences punishable under Sections 11(1) and 12 of Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, now, the petitioner and the second respondent have amicably settled their dispute between themselves. The second respondent has also filed an affidavit. The dispute between husband and wife has been magnified and stamped as an POCSO offence. The victim is minor daughter. Now, all are residing together as a family happily. In view of the compromise between the parties, the possibility of conviction is also remote and bleak. In the above circumstances, continuity of the criminal proceedings would only cause oppression and prejudice to the parties, hence, in order to secure the ends of justice, this Court is inclined to quash the criminal proceedings. Accordingly, this Criminal Original Petition is allowed and FIR in Crime No. 31 of 2024 registered against the petitioner on the file of the first respondent, is hereby quashed and the terms of joint compromise memo and affidavit filed by the second respondent shall form part and parcel of this order.

[case 92]
Shadab vs State Of U. P. And Another on 6 January, 2021. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 47508 of 2020. Applicant: - Shadab. Opposite Party: - State of U. P. and Another. Counsel for Applicant: - Praveen Kumar Srivastava. Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Samit Gopal, J. Heard Sri Praveen Kumar Srivastava, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Brij Bhushan Upadhyay, learned AGA for the State and perused the material on record. This bail application under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure has been filed by the applicant Shadab, seeking enlargement on bail during trial in connection with Case Crime No. 343 of 2020, under Sections 363, 366, 376 I. P. C. and 3/4 POCSO Act, registered at P. S. Shahaswan, District Budaun. Learned counsel for the applicant argued that the victim as per certificate of Chief Medical Officer, Budaun, copy of which is annexed as annexure no. 5(at page-27) to the affidavit, was opined to be about 17 years of age. It is argued that the statement of the prosecutrix was recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C. , copy of which is annexed as annexure no. 6 to the affidavit, in which she stated that she went with the applicant along with her sister and her child who is divorced, and the boyfriend of her elder sister out of her own sweet will to Delhi and remained there for about 18 days in a room. Further she stated that the applicant did not commit any illegal act with her and all the four persons lived in one room together. It is argued that the applicant has been falsely implicated in the present case as no offence against him is made out. Learned counsel for the applicant argued that the applicant has no other criminal antecedents as stated in para-16 of the affidavit and is in jail since 24. 8. 2020. Per contra, learned AGA has opposed the prayer for bail but could not dispute the arguments raised above. After perusing the record in the light of the submissions made at the bar and after taking an overall view of all the facts and circumstances of this case, the nature of evidence and also the absence of any convincing material to indicate the possibility of tampering with the evidence, this Court is of the view that the applicant may be enlarged on bail. Let the applicant- Shadab, be released on bail in the aforesaid case crime number on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions which are being imposed in the interest of justice: i) The applicant will not tamper with prosecution evidence and will not harm or harass the victim/complainant in any manner whatsoever. ii) The applicant will abide the orders of court, will attend the court on every date and will not delay the disposal of trial in any manner whatsoever. (iii) The applicant shall file an undertaking to the effect that he shall not seek any adjournment on the date fixed for evidence when the witnesses are present in court. In case of default of this condition, it shall be open for the trial court to treat it as abuse of liberty of bail and pass orders in accordance with law. (iv) The applicant will not misuse the liberty of bail in any manner whatsoever. In case the applicant misuses the liberty of bail during trial and in order to secure his presence proclamation under section 82 Cr. P. C. , may be issued and if applicant fails to appear before the court on the date fixed in such proclamation, then, the trial court shall initiate proceedings against him, in accordance with law, under section 174-A I. P. C. (V) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the trial court on dates fixed for (1) opening of the case, (2) framing of charge and (3) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. If in the opinion of the trial court absence of the applicant is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the trial court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against him in accordance with law and the trial court may proceed against him under Section 229-A IPC. (vi) The trial court may make all possible efforts/endeavour and try to conclude the trial expeditiously after the release of the applicant. The identity, status and residential proof of sureties will be verified by court concerned and in case of breach of any of the conditions mentioned above, court concerned will be at liberty to cancel the bail and send the applicant to prison. The bail application is allowed. The party shall file computer generated copy of such order downloaded from the official website of High Court Allahabad. The computer generated copy of such order shall be self-attested by the counsel of the party concerned. The concerned Court/Authority/Official shall verify the authenticity of such computerized copy of the order from the official website of High Court Allahabad and shall make a declaration of such verification in writing. (Samit Gopal, J. ) Order Date: - 6. 1. 2021.

[case 93]
Child In Conflict With Law Through His. .. vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 23 September, 2023
Madhya Pradesh High Court
Child In Conflict With Law Through His. .. vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 23 September, 2023
Author: Rohit Arya
Bench: Rohit Arya
IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH
CRA No. 10440 of 2023
(CHILD IN CONFLICT WITH LAW THROUGH HIS GUARDIAN/ FATHER Vs THE STATE OF MADHYA
Dated: 23-09-2023
Ms. Ayushi Vyas, learned counsel for the appellant.
Mr. N. S. Tomar, learned Public Prosecutor for the respondent - State.
Heard on I. A. No. 15174/2023, which is first application under Section 389(1) of Cr. P. C. moved on behalf of appellant No. 1 - Child IN Conflict with law seeking suspension of sentence and grant of bail.
Appellant stands convicted under Section 450 of IPC and sentenced to undergo 05 years RI with fine of Rs. 500/-, under Section 328 of IPC and sentenced to undergo 05 years RI with fine of Rs. 500/- and under Section 6 of POCSO Act read with Section 376(D) of IPC and sentenced to undergo 20 years' RI with fine of Rs. 50, 000/- with default stipulation vide judgment of conviction and order of sentence dated 01. 08. 2023 passed by the Special Judge (POCSO Act), Bhind (Madhya Pradesh) in Special Case (ST No. ) No. 80/2021. As per prosecution story, while parents of the prosecutrix had gone away to attend a marriage, her brother and sister were sleeping on the terrace and she was sleeping in the courtyard on the ground floor, on 11. 05. 2019, at about 12 in the intervening night, accused - Jitendra, Rohit and present appellant (juvenile) entered the house from terrace area and caught hold the prosecutrix. She was dragged in a room, where she was forced to consume liquor, while present appellant-(juvenile) and another accused were standing outside the room. Main accused Jitendra committed rape on the prosecutrix. Accordingly, case has been registered. Upon filing of challan, the case was committed for trial to the Sessions Court. The Sessions Court upon critical evaluation of the evidence placed on record has convicted and sentenced the appellant as referred above. Learned counsel for the appellant at the first instance fairly submits that the appellant (juvenile) has already suffered the jail incarceration for almost three years. There is no allegation of either violating the personal liberty of the prosecutrix or committing rape. Instead, the sole allegation against him is that he entered the house and was standing outside the room, where she was sexually abused by the main accused Jitendra. As such the conviction of the appellant under Section 376(D) of IPC and 5(G) and 6 of POCSO is fully unwarranted and based on surmises and conjecture. The appellant even otherwise, has no criminal antecedents. It is further submitted that co-accused Rohit has already been granted bail by this Court and the case of the present appellant is akin to his case. Hence, prays for suspension of sentence and grant of bail. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent-State opposes the application supporting the order impugned with the submission that the appellant and two accused persons had entered the house of the prosecutrix with common intention of commission of rape. The active participation is well specific from the story of the prosecution and the evidence placed on record during trial. Hence, no exception can be taken in the matter of suspension of sentence and grant of bail. Upon hearing counsel for the parties, though this Court refrains from commenting upon rival contentions touching merits of the matter but looking to nature of allegation and since the appellant is having no criminal record, the application deserves to be allowed. Accordingly, we allow the application and it is directed that the jail sentence of the appellant - (juvenile) shall remain suspended and he be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs. 2, 00, 000/- (Rupees Two Lakh only) with one solvent surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial Court subject to verification of factum regarding deposit of fine amount. Appellant is directed to appear before the Registry of this Court on 23. 11. 2023 and on other subsequent dates as may be fixed in this behalf with following further conditions: - (i) the concerned jail authorities are directed that before releasing the appellant, the medical examination of the appellant be conducted through the jail doctor and if it is prima facie found that she is having any symptoms of COVID-19, then the consequential follow up action or any further test required be undertaken immediately. If not, appellant shall be released on bail in terms of the conditions imposed in this order; (ii) violation of conditions, State is free to apply for cancellation of bail. Accordingly, I. A. No. 15174/2023 stands allowed and disposed of. Observations on facts, if any, are only for the purpose of deciding the instant I. A. and shall have no bearing on the merits of the appeal.

[case 94]
O R D E R 1. Vide this order I shall decide the appeal filed on behalf of the appellant/CCL 'S' through his father against the order dated 13. 01. 2017 passed by the Ld. Juvenile Justice BoardII Delhi wherein the Ld. JJB has directed that medical opinion with regard to the age of the CCL/appellant be obtained by a duly constituted medical board at Safdarjung Hospital. 2. The appellant/CCL was apprehended by the police during the investigation of FIR No. 351/16, PS Lajpat Nagar which was initially registered U/s 307/34 IPC but subsequently due to death of the victim, Section 302 IPC was also added in the said case. 3. The appellant/CCL claimed juvenility and consequently age determination inquiry was conducted by the Ld. JJBII. During the course of said inquiry it has come on record that after his apprehension the appellant/CCL had furnished his school documents in the nature of Scholar's register and transfer certificate Form purportedly issued from Chaudhary Beerpal Singh Inter College, Barah Bulandshahar, Uttar Pradesh. However the said document was found to be forged upon verification and subsequently yet another school record in the nature of school leaving certificate purportedly issued by Principal, Dhani Ram Sharma Public School, Makanpur Khadar, Post Dankaur District, Gautam Budh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh was filed alongwith bail application of appellant/CCL. In the age determination inquiry, the Ld. Board has examined CW1, Principal of the said school and CW2, Shri Harjit Panwar, Head Clerk, Transport Authority, Sheikh Sarai, New Delhi. The Ld. JJB also examined the appellant/CCL under section 165 Evidence Act wherein the CCL claimed that he had taken admission in Chaudhary Beerpal Singh Inter College, Barah Bulandshahar, Uttar Pradesh but he did not attend any classes. He was also examined in order to ascertain the documents on the basis of which he had set up his date of birth of 08. 09. 1992 before the Transport Authority at Delhi for procuring his driving licence but the Ld. Counsel for the CCL has contended that the said driving licence was procured through a tout/middle man. The Juvenile Justice Board placed reliance on the judgments titled, 'Om Prakash Vs. State of Rajasthan & Anr. ', 'Parag Bhati Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. ' and other judgment titled 'Mukarrab Vs. State of UP' to hold that the plea of minority set up by the CCL is not free from ambiguity and doubts. The JJB directed for obtaining the medical opinion based on scientific investigations as regards age of CCL. 4. The Ld. counsel for appellant has vehemently argued that once the Juvenile Justice Board had examined CW1, Principal of Dhani Ram Sharma Public School, Uttar Pradesh then there was no occasion for the JJB to order for constitution of medical board for seeking medical opinion in respect of the age of the appellant. 5. The Hon'ble Apex Court in 'Om Prakash vs. State of Rajasthan (Supra)' has decided about the approach to be adopted in age enquiry in grave and heinous offences and held that if there is a clear and unambiguous case in favour of the juvenile accused that he was a minor below the age of 18 years on the date of the incident, he would be entitled for this special protection under the Juvenile Justice Act. But when an accused commits a grave and heinous offence and attempts to take statutory shelter under the guise of being a minor, a casual or cavalier approach, cannot be permitted as the courts are enjoined upon to perform their duties with the object of protecting the confidence of common man in the institution entrusted with the administration of justice. 6. Thus in a circumstance where the Ld JJB cannot arrive at a conclusive finding regarding the age of the accused, the opinion of the medical experts based on xray and ossification test can be obtained. 7. The benefit of the principle of benevolent legislation attached to Juvenile Justice Act would thus apply to only such cases wherein the accused is held to be a juvenile based on cogent evidence regarding his minority. 8. In view of the above discussions, the impugned order of the Ld. JJB for obtaining the medical opinion can not be faulted by appellant/CCL who gives forged and fabricated school documents regarding his age initially and also uses documents showing his majority for obtaining Driving Licence from Transport authority/Govt Dept but hides the said documents when involved in case of heinous nature.

[case 95]
Sri Vamshi @ Vamshi Krishna, vs The State Of Karnataka on 24 April, 2018. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 24th DAY OF APRIL, 2018 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE SREENIVAS HARISH KUMAR CRIMINAL PETITION No. 1639 OF 2018 BETWEEN Sri. Vamshi @ Vamshi Krishna s/o Veeresh @ Salappa aged about 19 years r/at. No. 1, 1st Main Road 1st Cross, J. J. Nagar Bangalore - 560078. .. .Petitioner (By Sri. B. V. Pinto, Advocate) AND The State of Karnataka By J. J. Nagar Police Station, By State Public Prosecutor, High Court of Karnataka, Bengaluru-560001. .. .Respondent (By Sri. K. Nageshwarappa, HCGP) This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of Cr. P. C. praying to enlarge the petitioner on bail in Crime No. 130/2017 of Jagajeevanram Nagar Police Station, Bengaluru and in Spl. C. C. No. 343/2017 pending on the file of LIV Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge (CCH-55), sitting in the Child Friendly Court, Bengaluru Urban District for the offences punishable under Section 376 of IPC and Section 4, 6, 8 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. This Criminal Petition coming on for orders this day, the court made the following: ORDER This is a petition under Section 439 Cr. P. C. The petitioner is facing trial in Spl. C. C. No. 343/2017 pending on the file of Addl. City Civil and Sessions Judge and Child Friendly Court (CCH-55), Bengaluru. He is implicated for the offences punishable under Sections 4, 6, 8 and 12 of POCSO Act, 2012 and Section 376 of IPC. The allegations made against the petitioner are that on 15. 05. 2017 at about 10. 00 p. m. , the petitioner took the complainant's daughter aged about 5 years to his house and sexually abused the child. The learned counsel for the petitioner argues by referring to the medical report that the doctor who examined the victim girl soon after lodging of the complaint gave an opinion that the victim girl is not used to the act of sexual intercourse and that he also did not find the signs of recent sexual activity. Then he refers to FSL report and argues that even this report has come negative. Therefore, the complaint made against the petitioner is a false one. Moreover, two prime witnesses who have been examined in the court have not at all spoken anything against the petitioner. Since these two witnesses have been examined, there are no chances that the petitioner is likely to influence the other witnesses. The petitioner has been in custody for the last one year and the trial may take some more time to get concluded. Hence the petitioner can be enlarged on bail. On the other hand, the High Court Government Pleader submits that just because two witnesses have not supported the prosecution case, it cannot be said that the other witnesses do not support. The two witnesses who have been examined are child witnesses. The answers given by them to the preliminary questions put to them show very well that they are competent witnesses. This evidence may or may not be believed by the court. The medical report in fact supports the prosecution case because the doctor has noticed redness over labia minora. The mother has to be examined. There are no grounds to grant bail. Usually, when the trial is pending, after conclusion of recording of evidence of two or three witnesses, the accused would move for bail if the witnesses turn hostile. Whether to grant bail or not after examination of some of the witnesses depends on facts and circumstances. Just because some witnesses turn hostile, it cannot be a ground for granting bail. However, this cannot be a yardstick always for denying the bail. Now in this case PW-1 is the victim girl. Preliminary questions were put to her and thereafter she was subjected to examination. If the answers given by the witnesses are seen, it appears that she was not able to comprehend the questions put to her. The other witness is a boy of 8 years. He too has not supported the prosecution case. According to prosecution, PW-1 and 2 are the prime witnesses. The trial court can appreciate their evidence. Merely because two witnesses have turned hostile it cannot be said that the other witnesses do not support. But at this stage what is found is that in view of examination of prime witnesses having been completed, the possibility of other witnesses being influenced by the petitioner can be safely ruled out. Hence the following order: (a) Petition is allowed. (b) Petitioner, who is facing trial in Spl. C. C. No. 343/2017, on the file of LIV Additional City Civil and Session Judge (CCH-55), Bengaluru shall be released on bail on his executing bond for a sum of Rs. 1, 00, 000/- (Rupees One Lakh only) and providing two sureties for the like sum to the satisfaction of the trial Court. The petitioner is also subjected to the following conditions: 1) He shall regularly appear before the Court during trial. 2) He shall not threaten the witnesses and tamper with the prosecution evidence.

[case 96]
Smt. Kanijan vs State Of U. P. on 23 January, 2025. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Neutral Citation No. - 2025: AHC: 11561. Court No. - 65. Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 1156 of 2025. Applicant: - Smt. Kanijan. Opposite Party: - State of U. P. Counsel for Applicant: - Mohammad Waseem. Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J. 1. List has been revised. 2. Heard Sri Rajesh Kumar Verma, Advocate holding brief of Sri Mohammad Waseem, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Arun Kumar, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material placed on record. 3. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 208 of 2024, under Sections 498-A, 304-B I. P. C. and 3/4 Dowry Prohibition Act, Police Station- Nawabganj, District- Bareilly, during the pendency of trial. 4. As per prosecution story, the marriage of son of the applicant was solemnized with the deceased person as per Muslim Rites about three years before her death. The applicant and other family members are stated to have subjected her to cruelty for demand of dowry and also used to torture her by saying her to be unable to bear a child, as such, committed her murder by administering some poisonous material on 1. 6. 2024. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant has argued that the applicant is absolutely innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case. The applicant is the mother-in-law of the deceased person and has nothing to do with the said offence. There are general allegations in the FIR. At the one hand it is being stated that dowry was demanded from the victim and on the other hand it is stated that she was subjected to torture by calling her unable to bear a child (Banjh), as such, the applicant is entitled for bail. 6. Several other submissions have been made on behalf of the applicant to demonstrate the falsity of the allegations made against her. The circumstances which, as per counsel, led to the false implication of the applicant have also been touched upon at length. There is no criminal antecedent of the applicant. The applicant is languishing in jail since 31. 8. 2024 and she is ready to cooperate with trial. In case, the applicant is released on bail, she will not misuse the liberty of bail. 7. Learned A. G. A. has vehemently opposed the bail application. 8. The Supreme Court in Kahkashan Kausar @ Sonam vs The State of Bihar, reported in 2022 (6) SCC 599 has categorically stated that the Courts should be careful in proceeding against the distant relatives in crimes pertaining to matrimonial disputes and dowry deaths. The relatives of the husband should not be roped in on the basis of omnibus allegations unless specific instances of their involvement in the crime are made out. 9. In light of the judgement of the Supreme Court passed in Niranjan Singh and another vs Prabhakar Rajaram Kharote and others AIR 1980 SC 785, this Court has avoided detailed examination of the evidence and elaborate documentation of the merits of the case as no party should have the impression that his case has been prejudiced. A prima facie satisfaction of case is needed but it is not the same as an exhaustive exploration of the merits in the order itself. 10. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, submissions made by learned counsel for the parties, the evidence on record, and taking into consideration the settled law of the Supreme Court passed in Satender Kumar Antil vs. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. , 2022 INSC 690 and Manish Sisodia vs. Directorate of Enforcement, 2024 INSC 595 and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the Court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed. 11. Let the applicant- Smt. Kanijan, who is involved in aforementioned case crime be released on bail on her furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following conditions. Further, before issuing the release order, the sureties be verified. (i) The applicant shall not tamper with evidence. (ii) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the Trial Court on dates fixed for (1) opening of the case, (2) framing of charge and (3) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. /351 B. N. S. S. If in the opinion of the Trial Court absence of the applicant is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the Trial Court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against her in accordance with law. 12. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. 13. It is made clear that observations made in granting bail to the applicant shall not in any way affect the learned trial Judge in forming his independent opinion based on the testimony of the witnesses. Order Date: - 23. 1. 2025

[case 97]
Deepak Rajak vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 5 October, 2023. IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH AT GWALIOR CRA No. 5 of 2023. Dated: 05-10-2023. Mr. Naval Kishore Gupta - learned counsel for appellant. Mr. Rajeev Upadhyay - Public Prosecutor for respondent - State. Heard on I. A. No. 17030/2023, which is second application under Section 389 (1) of Cr. P. C. for suspension of sentence and grant of bail filed on behalf of appellant- Deepak Rajak. Appellant stood convicted under Section 363 of IPC r/w 3(2)(v-a) of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 (in short, Act), Section 366 of IPC r/w 3(2)(v) of the Act and 376(3) r/w 3(2)(v) of the Act and sentenced to undergo two years RI with fine of Rs. 1, 000/-, imprisonment for life with fine of Rs. 1, 000/- and imprisonment for life with fine of Rs. 2, 000/- with default stipulation respectively vide judgment of conviction and order of sentence dated 24. 11. 2022 passed by Special Judge (POCSO Act 2012), Shivpuri (M. P. ) in S. C. No. 90/2021. Appellant so far has undergone incarceration of three years and two months. A s per prosecution story, an FIR was lodged on 29. 02. 2020 by the prosecutrix accompanied by her parents and brother to the effect that on 26. 01. 2020 while her father was ill and her mother & sister had gone to the field and she was alone at the home, the present appellant, who was her neighbour, came to her house. He made false promise of marriage and thereafter manipulated her and she was subjected to sexual abuse. Besides, the appellant had taken her to Jhansi and went to take the ticket while leaving her at Jhansi platform. Thereafter, the prosecutrix came back home by traveling in the bus. On such allegations, the investigation was started. Upon completion of investigation, challan was filed and the case was committed to the Sessions Court for Trial. The Sessions Court after proper evaluation of evidence placed on record convicted and sentenced the appellant as mentioned above. Learned counsel for the appellant, while taking exception to the impugned judgment of conviction and order of sentence submits that the appellant is innocent and has been falsely implicated. It is a case of consent. The prosecutrix on her own volition had gone with the appellant. There is delay of one month in lodging of FIR. There is no medical evidence which supports the case of prosecution. As per Ex. D-5, medical ossification report, her age is 16-18 years. The prosecutrix's father PW-15 himself stated that date-of-birth of the prosecutrix was mentioned in the school record on hypothetical basis, for which they have no record. In the aforesaid circumstances, the impugned judgment is based on surmises and conjectures and suffers from vice of perversity. The appellant has already suffered incarceration of 3 years and 2 months. There is no likelihood of the early disposal of the appeal in the near future. Under such circumstances, learned counsel for the appellant prays that benefit of suspension of sentence may be extended to present appellant. Per contra, learned counsel for the State while supporting the impugned judgment opposes the suspension application and prays for its rejection with submission that the date-of-birth of the prosecutrix was 10. 06. 2007 and the incident took place on 26. 01. 2020 and thus, at that time she was 14 years of age, therefore, her consent is irrelevant. It is a case of manipulation and sexual abuse of a minor child at the hands of the present appellant. Hence no exception can be taken in the impugned judgment for suspension of sentence. Upon hearing learned counsel for the parties, though this Court refrains from commenting upon the rival contentions so advanced touching the merits of the case, but regard being had to the fact that that present appellant so far has suffered incarceration of 03 years and 02 months and there is no likelihood of early hearing of the appeal, in the obtaining facts and circumstances, appellant is held entitled to suspension of jail sentence. Accordingly, I. A. No. 17030/2023 stands allowed and it is directed that jail sentence of appellant shall remain suspended during pendency of the present appeal and he shall be released on bail subject to verification of the factum of depositing the fine amount and on furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs. 2, 00, 000/- (Rupees Two Lacs only) with one solvent surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the Trial Court. He is directed to appear before the Registry of this Court first on 07. 12. 2023 and on other subsequent dates as may be fixed in this behalf. Observations on facts, if any, are only for the purpose of deciding the instant I. A. and shall have no bearing on the merits of the appeal. A copy of this order be sent to the concerned Court below for compliance. Certified copy as per rules.

[case 98]
Kerala High Court Mahesh P. K vs The Station House Officer on 11 April, 2019 Author: Alexander Thomas Bench: Alexander Thomas IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ALEXANDER THOMAS THURSDAY, THE 11TH DAY OF APRIL 2019 / 21ST CHAITHRA, 1941 Bail Appl. .No. 7643 of 2018 CRIME NO. 1056/2018 OF Valappatanam Police Station, Kannur PETITIONER/S: MAHESH P. K, AGED 42 YEARS S/O. NANU, PANTHAKKAL KUNIYIL HOUSE, KIDANJI, KANNUR DISTRICT-670 675. BY ADV. SRI. CIBI THOMAS RESPONDENT/S: 1 THE STATION HOUSE OFFICER, VALAPATTANAM POLICE STATION, KANNUR DISTRICT-670 010. 2 THE STATE OF KERALA, REPRESENTED BY THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM-682 031. OTHER PRESENT: SRI. SAIGI JACOB PALATTY, PUBLIC PROSECUTOR THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 11. 04. 2019, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: ALEXANDER THOMAS, J. ================== B. A. No. 7643 of 2018 ================== Dated this the 11th day of April, 2019 ORDER The petitioner is the accused in Crime No. 1056/2018 of Valapattaham Police Station, registered for offences punishable under Secs. 7, 8, 9(l) and 10 of the POCSO Act. 2. The gist of the prosecution case is that the mother of the victim girl aged 11 years has been working as an employee of the bakery run by the petitioner accused and that at times, the mother used to go out for collection purposes to take care some of her other business activities, at which time, she used to leave her child in the bakery and that the petitioner has sexually abused the minor victim girl on those occasions, by kissing and embracing her, etc. and that the petitioner had attempted to bite her lips, and that the child had beaten him and had told the incident to the mother, etc. 3. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the abovesaid allegations have been falsely foisted against the petitioner and that the mother of the victim girl had left the employment of the petitioner's bakery and had joined the employment of one Vamban, who is running a medical shop. That the petitioner had earlier advanced certain monies to Vamban and the cheque issued by him in favour of the petitioner to discharge such liabilities was bounced, upon which the petitioner had sent Anx. 1 demand notice dated 22. 9. 2018 demanding return of the said money covered by the dishonoured cheque, to which the said Vamban had given Anx. II reply dated 8. 10. 208 threatening the petitioner that it is known that the petitioner had sexually abused the mother of the victim girl as well as the victim girl and that those aspects would be brought to light, etc. 4. It is pointed out that after issuance of Anx. II reply dated 8. 10. 2018, the mother of the child had given complaint to the Police on 26. 10. 2018, which has led to the institution of the instant crime, and that the impugned criminal proceedings are tainted by malicious and ulterior considerations and has been foisted only at the instance of the person, who has issued Anx. II notice in order to wreck vengeance on the petitioner. 5. Per contra, the learned Prosecutor would submit that the allegations raised against the petitioner are serious and that the truth or otherwise of the petitioner's allegations cannot be assessed at this point of time and on this basis, the learned Prosecutor opposes the grant of anticipatory bail. 6. After having heard both sides and taking into account the abovesaid facts of the case and other attendant circumstances dealt with herein above, this Court is of the considered view that the custodial interrogation may not be really warranted. However, it is necessary that the investigation process is duly completed with due co-operation of the petitioner. Accordingly, it is ordered that: The petitioner will surrender before the investigating officer for interrogation process two weeks from the date notified for receiving certified copy of this order and after the interrogation process is over, the investigating officer shall produce the petitioner before the jurisdictional Magistrate court concerned, who is dealing with the abovesaid crime and the petitioner may then submit application for grant of bail, advance copy of which shall be given to the learned Prosecutor and thereupon, the learned Magistrate will consider the said application for bail on the same day and will pass orders thereon after affording reasonable opportunity of being heard to the petitioner's counsel and the learned Prosecutor, on the same day. It is made clear that in case the petitioner does not surrender before the investigating officer concerned as directed herein above, then the direction issued herein above will stand automatically vacated. With these observations and directions, the above Bail Application stands finally disposed of. Sd/- sdk+ ALEXANDER THOMAS, JUDGE

[case 99]
Usmansab S/O Nabisab Sannamani vs Smt. Dilshadbegam W/O Usmansab. .. on 8 November, 2024 -1- NC: 2024: KHC-D: 16396 RPFC No. 100105 of 2024 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA, DHARWAD BENCH DATED THIS THE 8TH DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2024 BEFORE THE HON'BLE SMT. JUSTICE LALITHA KANNEGANTI REV. PET FAMILY COURT NO. 100105 OF 2024 BETWEEN: USMANSAB S/O NABISAB SANNAMANI, AGE: 31 YEARS OCC: BUSINESS AND AGRICULTURE, R/O: BHOGENAGARKOPPA, GANJIGATTI, DHARWAD, NOW RESIDING AT R/O: KHAN TOTA, JANATA COLONY, GADAG, TQ: AND DIST: GADAG. .. .PETITIONER (BY SRI. SADIQ N. GOODWALA, ADVOCATE) AND: SMT. DILSHADBEGAM W/O USMANSAB SANNAMANI, AGE: 27 YEARS, OCC: HOUSEHOLD WORK, R/O: BHOGENAGARKOPPA, GANJIGATTI, DHARWAD, TQ: DIST: DHARWAD-580 001, NOW RESIDING AT R/O: KHAN TOTA, JANATA COLONY, GADAG, TQ: DIST: GADAG. .. .RESPONDENT (BY SRI. ANAND R. KOLLI, ADVOCATE) THIS RPFC IS FILED UNDER SEC. 19(4) OF THE FAMILY COURT ACT, PRAYING TO, SET ASIDE THE ORDER DATED 02. 02. 2024 PASSED BY PRINCIPAL JUDGE, FAMILY COURT, GADAG, IN CRL. MISC. NO. 171/2023 BY ALLOWING THE PETITION IN THE INTEREST OF JUSTICE AND EQUITY. THIS PETITION IS COMING ON FOR ORDERS, THIS DAY, THE COURT MADE THE FOLLOWING: CORAM: THE HON'BLE SMT. JUSTICE LALITHA KANNEGANTI ORAL ORDER Aggrieved by the order passed in Crl. Misc. No. 171/2023 dated 02. 02. 2024 by the Principal Judge, Family Court, Gadag, the petitioner/husband is before this Court. 2. The parties are referred to as husband and wife for the sake of convenience. 3. The wife had filed Crl. Misc. No. 171/2023 seeking maintenance of an amount of Rs. 30, 000/- per month and litigation expenses of an amount of Rs. 50, 000/-. It is the case of the wife that she has been ill-treated by the husband and his family members have abused and assaulted her. Out of the wedlock, she gave birth to one male child and due to ill health, the said child died. It is her case that the husband is running a Chicken shop and he is getting daily income of an amount of Rs. 15, 000/- to Rs. 20, 000/- and he is getting income of an amount of Rs. 5 to 8 Lakhs from his land. It is stated that the wife has no source of income and she is not in a position to maintain herself. 4. The trial Court has given a finding that the husband had neglected the wife, when it comes to the quantum of maintenance, the trial Court observed that the wife has claimed maintenance of an amount of Rs. 30, 000/- per month, which is exorbitant one and it is prima facie found that the cause of justice would be served if the wife is granted reasonable maintenance by keeping in mind the inflation and high cost of living. The trial Court observed that in the process of doing complete justice between the parties, the trial Court had granted an amount of Rs. 4, 000/- per month. Aggrieved thereby, the husband is before this Court. 5. Learned counsel appearing for the petitioner/husband submits that the amount that is granted by the trial Court is on the higher side and it is an ex-parte order and without any basis, such order is passed. He submits that the wife is not entitled for maintenance as she neglected the husband. As such, the order impugned is liable to be set aside. 6. Learned counsel appearing for the respondent/wife submits that the trial Court had granted only an amount of Rs. 4, 000/- per month as maintenance and even that is also questioned by the husband. It is submitted that when the husband has received the notice from the Court, he had avoided intentionally and he is coming up before this Court with different stands and this petition is liable to be dismissed. 7. Having heard the learned counsels on either side, perused the entire material on record. The wife had claimed maintenance of an amount of Rs. 30, 000/- per month and litigation expenses of an amount of Rs. 50, 000/-. The trial Court had granted an amount of Rs. 4, 000/- per month as maintenance and an amount of Rs. 10, 000/- as litigation expenses. With regard to the ground that is raised by the husband that it is an ex-parte order, why he has not appeared before the Court when he received the notices, no positive explanation is coming forth. Neither he has appeared before the Court nor he has filed his statement of assets and liabilities before this Court to show that he is not in a position to pay even an amount of Rs. 4, 000/- per month to the wife. In that view of the matter, this Court finds no reason to interfere with the order passed by the trial Court. Hence, the following: ORDER i. Accordingly, the revision petition is dismissed. ii. As per the order passed by this Court, Demand Draft is deposited by the petitioner before this Court and the respondent is at liberty to withdraw the amount. iii. All I. As. in this petition shall stand closed. Sd/- JUSTICE LALITHA KANNEGANTI

[case 100]
Polu Anil vs The State Of Telangana on 26 April, 2022. HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE K. SURENDER. CRIMINAL APPEAL No. 43 OF 2020 JUDGMENT: 1. The appellant filed this appeal questioning the conviction recorded under Section 366 of Indian Penal Code and sentenced to undergo seven years simple imprisonment. However, the appellant was acquitted for the charges under Sections 354-A, 366-A of Indian Penal Code and Section 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO' Act). 2. Briefly stated, the case of the prosecution is that PW1 who is brother of the victim PW4 filed complaint Ex. P1 with the police stating that PW4 was missing and he suspected the appellant herein. According to prosecution case, the appellant took PW4 to a temple and tied gold 'pustela thadu' (sacred thread) around the neck of bride during marriage ceremony. Thereafter, PW4 and the appellant stayed at different places and nearly after ten days, the accused and PW4 were caught by the police. Thereafter, statement of PW4 was recorded by the Magistrate and the police. As per the statement given to the police and Magistrate under under section 164 CRPC marked as Ex. P4, PW4 stated that she was in love with the appellant and decided to marry him and went with the appellant on her own, taking one gold biscuit weighing six tulas. She told the appellant that they should elope and get married, accordingly, they went to Karimnagar in an auto and boarded a bus for Secunderabad and from Secunderabad they went to Thirupathi. Thereafter, they were caught by the police. On completion of investigation, the police filed charge sheet under Sections 366-A, 354 of Indian Penal Code and Section 12 of the POCSO Act, 2012. After the trial, the learned Sessions Judge found the appellant not guilty for the said charges, however, convicted the appellant under Section 366 of Indian Penal Code. 3. It is the specific case of PW4-victim that she was in love with the appellant and on her own she went with the appellant to Karimnagar and to Thirupathi where they got married and came back to Secunderabad. Neither in the statement made before the Court nor the statement made before the Magistrate under Ex. P4, did PW4 make any allegation of force against the appellant. Further, she stated during the chief-examination that accused did not make any sexual assault on her. 4. The learned Sessions Judge found that the girl was not a minor and the provisions of Section of POCSO Act did not attract. The trial Court also found that there was no allegation of any molestation for which reason, the trial Court found the appellant not guilty for the said offences. 5. Section 366 of Indian Penal Code reads as follows: "366. Kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc. --Whoever kidnaps or abducts any woman with intent that she may be compelled, or knowing it to be likely that she will be compelled, to marry any person against her will, or in order that she may be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse, or knowing it to be likely that she will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine; 1 [and whoever, by means of criminal intimidation as defined in this Code or of abuse of authority or any other method of compulsion, induces any woman to go from any place with intent that she may be, or knowing that it is likely that she will be, forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with another person shall also be punishable as aforesaid]. " 6. Question of kidnapping or abducting does not arise when the evidence itself discloses that PW4 had taken six tulas of gold and asked the appellant to come along with him and on her own they went to Thirupathi and came back. There is not even a whisper for any kind of force or compulsion under which PW4 went along with the appellant for all the 15 days. 7. Having found that PW4 was not a child, having acquitted the appellant for the offences under POCSO Act and also having found that there was no outraging of modesty of victim girl, the trial Court ought to have acquitted the appellant. 8. As seen from the evidence none of the ingredients of Section 366 of the Indian Penal Code are made out and for the said reason, the appellant is liable to be acquitted of the charge under Section 366 of Indian Penal Code and accordingly, acquitted. The appeal is allowed setting aside the conviction of the appellant under Section 366 of IPC. Since the appellant is already on bail, the bail bonds shall stand cancelled. As a sequel thereto, miscellaneous petitions, if any, pending, shall stands closed.

[case 101]
Kalpesh Kanubhai Thakor vs State Of Gujarat on 8 July, 2021. Learn More Free features Premium features Case removal Warning on translation Get this document in PDF Print it on a file/printer Download Court Copy Select the following parts of the judgment Petitioner's Arguments Respondent's Arguments Analysis of the law Court's Reasoning Conclusion For entire document Mark above structure Remove all markings Learn how it works! Cites 9, Cited by 0. Top AI Tags power-high-court-for-quashing kidnapping kidnapping-to-compel-marriage punishment-for-rape < custodian-rape < public-servant-commits-rape < police-officer-commits-rape penetrative-sexual-assault Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month. Gujarat High Court Kalpesh Kanubhai Thakor vs State Of Gujarat on 8 July, 2021 Author: Vipul M. Pancholi Bench: Vipul M. Pancholi R/CR. MA/4348/2021 ORDER DATED: 08/07/2021 IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD R/CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION NO. 4348 of 2021 ========================================================== KALPESH KANUBHAI THAKOR Versus STATE OF GUJARAT ========================================================== Appearance: MR BHAVESH J PATEL(6801) for the Applicant(s) No. 1 MR YOGESHKUMAR A RATANPARA(7260) for the Respondent(s) No. 2 MR MITESH AMIN, PUBLIC PROSECUTOR WITH MR DM DEVNANI, APP for the Respondent(s) No. 1 ========================================================== CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE VIPUL M. PANCHOLI Date: 08/07/2021 ORAL ORDER 1. Learned advocate Mr. Y. A. Ratanpara appearing for the respondent No. 2 - original first informant submitted that respondent no. 2 viz. Geetaben Kanubhai Chauhan is present during the course of hearing of this application in the office of learned advocate for the applicant and he identifies her. 2. Learned advocate Mr. Bhavesh J. Patel appearing for the applicant referred to the affidavit of the respondent No. 2 - complainant, which is placed on record at page 24 of the compilation and submitted that the matter is amicably settled with the complainant and therefore she has no objection if the complaint is quashed qua the applicant. 3. When inquired by this Court, respondent No. 2 stated that the matter is amicably settled with the applicants and therefore she has no objection if the complaint is quashed qua applicants. The applicant got married with the victim girl and the victim girl also delivered a child. Marriage certificate is also placed on record at page 17. 4. Rule. Learned A. P. P. Mr. D. M. Devnani and learned advocate Mr. Ratanpara waive service of Rule for respondent Nos. 1 and 2 respectively. Learned APP has objected for quashment of present proceedings on the premise of settlement. 5. With the consent of learned advocates appearing for the parties, present application is taken up for final disposal today. 6. By way of the present application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, the 'Code'), the applicants pray for quashing and setting aside the F. I. R. being C. R. No. I-63 of 2018 registered with Ranip Police Station, District Ahmedabad City for the offence punishable under Sections 363, 366, 376(2) of the IPC and Sections 3, 4, 5(j), 5(l) & 6 of the POCSO Act and other consequential proceedings, if any, arising out of the said FIR. 7. Learned advocate for the applicant has taken this Court through the factual matrix arising out of the present application. 8. At the outset, it is submitted that the parties have amicably resolved the dispute. In support of such submission made at bar by the learned advocates appearing for the respective parties, they have placed on record an affidavit of settlement of dispute duly signed by the respondent No. 2 - complainant. 9. Since now, the dispute with reference to the impugned F. I. R. is settled and resolved by and between parties which is confirmed by the original complainant, the trial would be futile and any further continuation of proceedings would amount to abuse of process of law. Therefore, the impugned F. I. R. is required to be quashed and set aside. 10. Resultantly, this application is allowed. Impugned F. I. R. being C. R. No. I-63 of 2018 registered with Ranip Police Station, District Ahmedabad City and all other consequential proceedings arising out of said FIR are hereby quashed and set aside qua the applicant. Rule is made absolute to the aforesaid extent. Direct service is permitted. (VIPUL M. PANCHOLI, J) LAVKUMAR J JANI Page 3 of 3 Downloaded on: Sat Jan 15 22: 20: 18 IST 2022.

[case 102]
Mr. X- Juvenile vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 4 April, 2023
HON'BLE SANJAY KUMAR PACHORI, J.
1. Heard Sri Shivam Yadav, Advocate holding brief of Sri Rajesh Yadav, learned counsel for the revisionist, Sri Ghanshyam Kesarwani, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material available on record. Despite service of notice upon opposite party No. 2, none appears on his behalf.
2. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his mother under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as "JJ Act, 2015") against the judgment dated 24. 9. 2022 passed by Special Judge (POCSO Act), Auraiya in Criminal Appeal No. 26 of 2022, whereby the appellate court has rejected the Criminal appeal and affirmed the order dated 29. 8. 2022 passed by Juvenile Justice Board, Auraiya. The Juvenile Justice Board has rejected the bail application of the revisionist, which has been filed by his natural guardian/mother, under Section 12 of "JJ Act, 2015" arising out of Case Crime No. 20 of 2022, under Sections 363, 366, 376, 504, 506 of the Indian Penal Code (in short "I. P. C. ") and Section 3/4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, Police Station- Bidhuna, District- Auraiya.
3. Learned counsel for the revisionist submits that the revisionist is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case due to ulterior motive. The revisionist was 15 years, 1 month and 6 days old at the time of the incident. As per educational certificate, the Juvenile Justice Board declared the revisionist as juvenile vide order dated 29. 8. 2022 and no proceeding is pending against the aforesaid order. It is further submitted that the FIR has been lodged against the revisionist and three other named persons by father of the victim. It is further submitted that there is material contradictions in the statement of the victim recorded under Section 161 and 164 Cr. P. C. As per statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C. , the victim has gone to the house of her friend in Kanpur and the father of the victim lodged false FIR against the revisionist. It is further submitted that as per educational certificate, victim was 14 years and 5 months old at the time of incident. As per medical report, no external or internal injury has been found on the person of the victim. Clothes have been changed due to which the clothes have not been collected during the investigation. The revisionist is in protective custody in an observation home since 25. 4. 2022.
4. It is further submitted that the finding recorded by the court below is against the social information report and is based on surmises and conjectures. It has been further submitted that there is no evidence to show that if the revisionist is released on bail, his release is likely to bring him into association with any known criminal, or expose him to moral, physical, or psychological danger, or that his release would defeat the ends of justice. No such findings were recorded as to how he will come in contact with known criminals and how he will be exposed to moral, physical, or psychological danger, or that his release would defeat the ends of justice.
5. Learned counsel for the revisionist further submits that the revisionist has no criminal antecedent to his credit except the present case and is not a previous convict nor is he associated with any kind of unsocial or criminal activities. There is no report regarding any previous criminal antecedents of the family of the revisionist. The natural guardian/mother of the revisionist has given an undertaking that if the revisionist is released on bail, she will keep him in her custody and look after him properly and has assured on behalf of the juvenile that she is ready to cooperate with the process of law and shall faithfully make the juvenile available before the court whenever required and is also ready to accept all the conditions which the Court may deem fit.
6. It has been further submitted that the Juvenile Justice Board as well as the Appellate Court have not appreciated the Social Information Report of the Probation Officer in its right perspective and passed the impugned judgment and order in a cursory manner without considering the position of law and have declined bail to the revisionist. The bare perusal of the impugned orders demonstrates that the same has been passed on flimsy grounds, which have occasioned a gross miscarriage of justice. The judgment and order passed by the learned court below are illegal, contrary to law, and is based on the erroneous assumption of facts and law.
. .. [continues]

[case 103]
The petitioner herein has been arrayed as the sole accused in the instant Crime No. 336/2019 of Kondotty Police Station, Malappuram, which has been registered for offences punishable under Secs. 354B of the IPC and Sec. 10, 9f & 9m of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, 2012. The prosecution case in short is that the petitioner/accused aged 62 years is a teacher in the Madrassa, where the minor victim girl aged 9 years used to attend religious instruction classes and that on 26. 06. 2019 at about 9a. m. , the petitioner/accused had sexually abused the minor victim girl aged 9 years, while she is in Madrassa by kissing her face and hands and biting on her lips. In the FI Statement, minor victim girl has stated that on the day in question she was alone in the classroom and the petitioner had demanded her that she should come and sit on his lap and she refused and thereupon he had forced her to sit on his lap and kissed on her cheeks saying that she is his daughter and that he had bitten her lips and that he had lifted her churidar top and touched her stomach and tickled her, etc. and that thereby the petitioner had committed the abovesaid offences. Smt. Noorji Noushad, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner has fervently urged that the petitioner is innocent of the allegations and that he happens to be the innocent scapegoat in the factional fight between the two factions of Sunni viz. , AK faction and PK faction and that the petitioner is teaching in a Madrassa which belongs to one of the groups and that the petitioner has been victimized in the instant case, etc. Further the learned counsel for the petitioner would point out that though the incident is allegedly happened on 26. 06. 2019, the First Information Statement and the crime has been lodged only as late as on 06. 07. 2019 and the long and unexplained delay in the lodging of the crime will go to the root of the prosecution case as it affects the very credibility and believability. Per contra, Sri. Saigi Jacob Palatty, learned Public Prosecutor appearing for the respondent-State would point out that the mother of the victim girl on coming to know about the incident which happened on 26. 06. 2019 had immediately complained to the President of the very same Madrassa, where the petitioner is teaching and that the police has now taken a statement from the said President of the Madrassa, who has stated that as a matter of fact the victim's mother had complained him on the very same day (26. 06. 2019) and that he had immediately authorized the Secretary of the Madrassa to conduct the internal enquiry in the matter. That the parents of the girl were patiently waiting for the action of the Madrassa authorities. That someone else who was interested in the welfare of the child had informed the matter to the childline authorities, which in turn led to the information being conveyed to the police, who in turn had taken the statement from the minor victim girl, which in turn has led to the registration of the instant crime and that the delay in this case cannot be said to be unexplained and serious and that in the light of the abovesaid facts and circumstances, the delay is satisfactorily explained, etc. Further that the petitioner has no case that the President of the Madrassa belongs to an opposite faction as the petitioner is teaching in the same Madrassa and the President of the Madrassa has given the above statement before the police about the information conveyed by the victim girl's mother on the same day itself. After hearing both sides and after careful evaluation of the facts and circumstances of the case, the following directions and orders are passed: (i) The petitioner will immediately surrender and personally appear before the Investigating Officer in relation to the instant crime, for interrogation purposes, without any further delay, at any rate by 9 a. m. on any day on or before 14. 08. 2019. (ii) The petitioner will fully co-operate with the Investigating Officer in the conduct of the above interrogation process. (iii) After completing the above interrogation process, the Investigating Officer will produce the petitioner before the jurisdictional Magistrate court concerned in relation to the instant crime, thereupon the learned Magistrate will consider and pass orders on the bail application of the petitioner on the same day of his production, after hearing the petitioner's counsel and the learned Public Prosecutor and after taking due note of the facts and circumstances of this case. With these observations and directions, the above Bail Application will stand disposed of.

[case 104]
Abdulla Ainulhaq Ansari vs The State Of Maharashtra And Anr on 16 December, 2021. This Appeal is directed against the judgment dated 10th October, 2019 in Special Case No. 211 of 2015. By the impugned judgment, the learned Addl. Sessions Judge & Special Judge, City Civil & Sessions Court, Borivali Division, Dindoshi, Mumbai has convicted the Appellant for offences under Section 376(2)(f) and 506 of Indian Penal Code and under Section 5 (n) r/w. Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO), and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and one of Rs. 5000/- I. d. rigorous imprisonment for 3 months for offence under Section 376(2)(f) of IPC; rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and fine of Rs. 5000/- i. d. simple imprisonment for 3 months for offence under Section 5(n) r/w. 6 of POCSO Act; and rigorous imprisonment for one year for offence under Section 506 of IPC. The Appellant (hereinafter referred to as 'the Accused') is the father of the prosecutrix (PW2). The prosecutrix along with her siblings, parents and grand parents was residing at Zore Chawl, Mahatma Kabir Road, Vile Parle, Mumbai. Some time in the year 2013, the prosecutrix was housed in Dongri Bal Sudhar Griha in connection with theft of a laptop. About a month later, the accused brought her home. Some days later, she ran away from home and was seen loitering at Kalyan Railway Station. She gave fake name to the police on duty at Kalyan Railway Station. She was produced before the Committee. She was sent to Bhivandi Bal Sudhar Griha (Children's Home) and four months later, she was shifted to Dongri Bal Sudhar Griha. In September, 2015, PW2 informed the Child Welfare Committee that the accused had subjected her to sexual abuse. Hence, by letter dated 08. 09. 2015, the Chairperson of the Child Welfare Committee directed the police to record the statement of the prosecutrix. Accordingly, PW5- Madhavi Kadav recorded the statement of the prosecutrix (PW2) pursuant to which FIR came to be registered against the Accused for offences under Section 376 (1)(ii), 506 of IPC and Section 6 of POCSO Act. PW5 referred the prosecutrix for medical examination, she conducted spot panchanama, arrested the accused and handed over further investigation to PW6- Sudhir Ghosalkar. PW6 requested the Magistrate to record the statement of the prosecutrix under Section 164 of Cr. P. C. He also referred the accused for medical examination and recorded the statement of the other witnesses and filed the charge sheet upon completion of investigation. The Accused pleaded not guilty to the charge and claimed to be tried. Prosecution in support of its case examined 6 witnesses. Statement of the accused was recorded under Section 313 of Cr. P. C. The defence of the accused was that of total denial. He has stated that the prosecutrix always used to run away from home. He objected to the same as he did not approve of the same. He claims that sometimes he used to beat her and hence she has lodged false complaint against him. The Accused has examined his wife as DW1. After evaluating the evidence adduced by the prosecution, the learned Judge has held that the evidence of the prosecutrix amply proves that the Accused herein had subjected her to rape. Hence, relying upon the sole testimony of the prosecutrix, the learned Judge held the Accused guilty of offence under section 376(ii)(f) of the IPC and section 5(n) of POCSO Act, 2012 and sentenced him as stated above. Being aggrieved by the conviction and sentence, the accused has preferred this Appeal under Section 374 of Cr. P. C. The evidence of PW2 reveals that she was housed in Bal Sudhar Griha for theft of a laptop. About a month later, the accused brought her home. She has deposed that the accused did not allow her to leave the house and used to beat her. She therefore ran away from the house, but the accused brought her back and assaulted her and cut her hair. The evidence of this witness is not reliable and trustworthy. She has not emerged as a truthful witness and has not passed the test of a 'sterling witness' and hence no conviction can be based on the uncorroborated testimony of PW2. The trial Court has based the conviction on conjectures and surmises, which are not well founded. Hence the impugned judgment cannot be sustained. Under the circumstances, the appeal is allowed. The impugned judgment is set aside. The accused is acquitted of offences under Section 376(2)(f) and 506 of Indian Penal Code and under Section 5 (n) r/w. Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). His bail bond stands discharged.

[case 105]
Sreesh P. T vs The State Of Kerala on 17 January, 2019. Bail Appl. .No. 244 of 2019. Crime No. 350/2018 of Thottipalam Police Station, Kozhikode. This application is filed under  439 of the Cr. P. C. The applicant claims to be a teenager. He finds himself arrayed as the sole accused in Crime No. 350 of 2018 of the Thottilpalam Police Station. In the aforesaid case, he faces accusations of having committed offence punishable under Sections 354, 363 & 376 of the IPC and Section 7 r/w. Section 8 and Section 3 r/w. Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. According to the prosecution, on 8. 10. 2018, the police was alerted that a minor child was found in the house of the applicant under suspicious circumstances. They reached the spot and questioned the child. She disclosed about her whereabouts and on the strength of the said information, her mother was informed. Based on the statement of the mother, the Crime was initially registered under Sections 363 and 354 and the relevant provisions of the POCSO Act, 2012. On further questioning, she is alleged to have disclosed that she was in a relationship with the applicant herein and on an earlier occasion, she had gone to the house of the applicant near Semitherimukku and he had subjected her to penetrative sexual intercourse. Section 376 of the IPC and graver provisions of the POCSO Act were later incorporated. The learned counsel appearing for the applicant would contend that the applicant is innocent. According to the learned counsel, the applicant was just 19 years old when the offence was committed. The allegation of sexual abuse levelled against him is not true, submits the learned counsel. He is from a poor background, whereas the parents of the victim are affluent. He would finally submit that the applicant, a teenager, has been housed in a jail with hardened criminals for over three months and his association with such men would only aid in transforming him to a criminal. Heard the learned Public Prosecutor, who strenuously opposed the prayer. It is submitted that the applicant herein had escaped from the police custody and thereafter, he was re-arrested on 17. 10. 2018. Crime No. 361 of 2018 has also been registered inter alia under Sections 353 and 332 of the IPC as against the applicant. The learned Public Prosecutor would also contend that the allegations are extremely grave. However, it is fairly submitted that after completion of the investigation, final reports have already been laid in both the crimes. I have considered the submissions advanced and have gone through the materials made available. Other than these two crimes, the applicant is not involved in any other crimes. Records would show that he has been in custody from 08. 10. 2018 itself. The final report has already been laid as well. In that view of the matter, I do not think that detaining the applicant for a further period would serve any purpose. By imposing appropriate conditions, for safeguarding the interest of the prosecution as well as the protection of the victim, the applicant can now be released. In the result, this application will stand allowed. The applicant shall be released on bail on his executing a bond for Rs. 1, 00, 000/-(Rupees One lakh only) with two solvent sureties each for the like sum to the satisfaction of the court having jurisdiction. The above order shall be subject to the following conditions: 1). The applicant shall appear before the Investigating Officer on all Saturdays between 10 a. m. and 1. 00 p. m. , for a period of 3 months. 2). He shall not enter the limits of Thottilpalam Police Station for a period of six months except for complying with the conditions of this order. If for any extraordinary reason the applicant requires to enter the limits, previous permission has to be obtained from the jurisdictional Court. 3). He shall not intimidate or attempt to influence the witnesses; nor shall he tamper with the evidence. He shall not contact the victim or her family members. 4). He shall not commit any offence while he is on bail. 5). He shall not leave India without the permission of the Court and if having passport, shall deposit the same before the Trial Court within a week; If release of the passport is required at a later period, he shall be at liberty to move appropriate application before the Court having jurisdiction. In case of violation of any of the above conditions, the jurisdictional Court shall be empowered to consider the application for cancellation, if any, and pass appropriate orders in accordance with the law.

[case 106]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH. Neutral Citation No. - 2025: AHC-LKO: 3599. Court No. - 11. Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 597 of 2025. Applicant: - Deepanshu. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Home Deptt. Lko And 3 Others. Counsel for Applicant: - Praveen Shukla. Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Rajesh Singh Chauhan, J. 1. Heard Sri Praveen Shukla, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Bhanu Pratap Singh, learned AGA for the State and Sri Avinash Pandey, who has filed Vakalatnama on behalf of the informant/ complainant and the victim of the cases. Said Vakalatnama is taken on record. 2. As per learned counsel for the applicant, the present applicant is in jail since 04. 08. 2024 in Special Sessions Trial No. 1109 of 2024, Case Crime/FIR No. 197 of 2023, under Sections 363, 366, 376 IPC and Section 5L/6 of POCSO Act, Police Station  Dileeppur, District  Pratapgarh. 3. The complainant (opposite party no. 2) and his daughter, who is the prosecutrix, are present in the Court today. The prosecutrix is having her son of about four months. She has stated that the father of her son is the present applicant. She was in affairs with the applicant and got married in one Temple. From the aforesaid wedlock, they have been blessed with a male child. 4. Learned AGA has stated that the present applicant has indicated his age as 20 years whereas the prosecutrix is a minor girl aged about 17 years as per her educational certificate, therefore, they got married without attaining the marriageable age. 5. The complainant, who is also present in the Court, has stated that since his daughter has got married with the applicant and from the aforesaid wedlock, she is having one male child, therefore, he has nothing to say. 6. Learned counsel for the applicant has stated that so as to look after his wife and child, the present applicant is seeking bail. The applicant is having no prior criminal history of any kind whatsoever. Further, the applicant undertakes that if he is released on bail, he shall not misuse the liberty of bail and shall abide by all terms and conditions of the bail order and he shall look after his wife and child properly. 7. Without entering into merits of the issue; considering the arguments of learned counsel for the parties; contents and allegations of the FIR; the fact that the prosecutrix and the applicant got married in one Temple and from their wedlock, they are having a son of about four months; considering the statement of the complainant and undertaking of the applicant that he shall not misuse the liberty of bail and shall look after his wife and child properly, I find it appropriate to release the applicant on bail. 8. Accordingly, the bail application is allowed. 9. Let applicant- Deepanshu be released on bail in the aforesaid special sessions trial number on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions: (i) The applicant shall file an undertaking to the effect that he shall not seek any adjournment on the dates fixed for evidence when the witnesses are present in court. In case of default of this condition, it shall be open for the trial court to treat it as abuse of liberty of bail and pass orders in accordance with law. (ii) The applicant shall remain present before the trial court on each date fixed, either personally or through his counsel. In case of his absence, without sufficient cause, the trial court may proceed against him under Section 229-A of the Indian Penal Code. (iii) In case, the applicant misuses the liberty of bail during trial and in order to secure his presence proclamation under Section 82 Cr. P. C. is issued and the applicant fails to appear before the court on the date fixed in such proclamation, then, the trial court shall initiate proceedings against him, in accordance with law, under Section 174-A of the Indian Penal Code. (iv) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the trial court on the dates fixed for (i) opening of the case, (ii) framing of charge and (iii) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. If in the opinion of the trial court absence of the applicant is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the trial court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against him in accordance with law. (v) The applicant shall not leave India without previous permission of the court.

[case 107]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 47044 of 2020 Applicant: - Tilak Singh @ Debu Opposite Party: - State of U. P. and Another Counsel for Applicant: - Raju Kanaujia Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Rajeev Misra, J. Heard Mr. Raju Kanaujia, learned counsel for applicant, learned A. G. A. for State and perused the record. This application has been filed by the applicant Tilak Singh @ Debu seeking his enlargement on bail in Case Crime No. 409 of 2019, under Sections 363, 366, 376(1) I. P. C. & 3/4 POCSO Act, Police Station- Gursahaiganj, District Kannauj during pendency of trial. Perusal of record shows that in respect of an occurrence which is alleged to have occurred on 8. 8. 2019, an F. I. R. dated 10. 8. 2019 was lodged by first informant Ganga Ram Fauji, which was registered as Case Crime No. 409 of 2019, under Sections 363, 366, 376(1) I. P. C. & 3/4 POCSO Act, Police Station- Gursahaiganj, District Kannauj. In the aforesaid F. I. R. , applicant Tilak Singh @ Debu has been nominated as solitary named accused. As per prosecution story as unfolded in the F. I. R. , it is alleged that the daughter of the first informant has eloped with the applicant on account of his conduct. She has also taken away certain cash kept in the house of first informant. Learned counsel for applicant contends that the applicant and the prosecutrix are living together and from the cohabitation of the applicant and prosecutrix a child has been borne. Bail application has been supported by the affidavit of the prosecutrix herself. It is thus urged that present applicant is liable to be enlarged on bail. Per contra, the learned A. G. A. for the State has opposed the prayer for bail of the applicant, but could not dispute the aforesaid fact. Keeping in view the nature of the offence, evidence, complicity of the accused, submissions of the learned counsel for the parties, and without expressing any opinion on merits of the case, I am of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. Applicant is in jail since 18. 10. 2020. He has no criminal antecedents to his credit. There is no possibility of the applicant of fleeing away from the judicial process or tampering with the witnesses and, in case, the applicant is enlarged on bail, the applicant shall not misuse the liberty of bail. Let the applicant-Tilak Singh @ Debu be released on bail in the aforesaid case crime number on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions which are being imposed in the interest of justice: - (i) THE APPLICANT SHALL FILE AN UNDERTAKING TO THE EFFECT THAT HE/SHE SHALL NOT SEEK ANY ADJOURNMENT ON THE DATE FIXED FOR EVIDENCE WHEN THE WITNESSES ARE PRESENT IN COURT. IN CASE OF DEFAULT OF THIS CONDITION, IT SHALL BE OPEN FOR THE TRIAL COURT TO TREAT IT AS ABUSE OF LIBERTY OF BAIL AND PASS ORDERS IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW. (ii) THE APPLICANT SHALL REMAIN PRESENT BEFORE THE TRIAL COURT ON EACH DATE FIXED, EITHER PERSONALLY OR THROUGH HIS/HER COUNSEL. IN CASE OF HIS/HER ABSENCE, WITHOUT SUFFICIENT CAUSE, THE TRIAL COURT MAY PROCEED AGAINST HIM/HER UNDER SECTION 229-A IPC. (iii) IN CASE, THE APPLICANT MISUSES THE LIBERTY OF BAIL DURING TRIAL AND IN ORDER TO SECURE HIS/HER PRESENCE PROCLAMATION UNDER SECTION 82 CR. P. C. , MAY BE ISSUED AND IF APPLICANT FAILS TO APPEAR BEFORE THE COURT ON THE DATE FIXED IN SUCH PROCLAMATION, THEN, THE TRIAL COURT SHALL INITIATE PROCEEDINGS AGAINST HIM/HER, IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW, UNDER SECTION 174-A IPC. (iv) THE APPLICANT SHALL REMAIN PRESENT, IN PERSON, BEFORE THE TRIAL COURT ON DATES FIXED FOR (1) OPENING OF THE CASE, (2) FRAMING OF CHARGE AND (3) RECORDING OF STATEMENT UNDER SECTION 313 CR. P. C. IF IN THE OPINION OF THE TRIAL COURT ABSENCE OF THE APPLICANT IS DELIBERATE OR WITHOUT SUFFICIENT CAUSE, THEN IT SHALL BE OPEN FOR THE TRIAL COURT TO TREAT SUCH DEFAULT AS ABUSE OF LIBERTY OF BAIL AND PROCEED AGAINST THE HIM/HER IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAW. (v) THE TRIAL COURT MAY MAKE ALL POSSIBLE EFFORTS/ENDEAVOUR AND TRY TO CONCLUDE THE TRIAL WITHIN A PERIOD OF ONE YEAR AFTER THE RELEASE OF THE APPLICANT. However, it is made clear that any wilful violation of above conditions by the applicant, shall have serious repercussion on his/her bail so granted by this court and the trial court is at liberty to cancel the bail, after recording the reasons for doing so, in the given case of any of the condition mentioned above.

[case 108]
Aggrieved by the order of learned Sessions Judge, Dhrangadhra in Sessions Case No. 24 of 2014 dated 8th April 2015, the present revision application has been preferred seeking to challenge the order of rejection of discharge application of the applicants-accused. It is the case of prosecution that the prosecutrix and her parents followed Islam. The marriage of prosecutrix with the original accused no. 7 and the applicant no. 1 herein was performed as per the Muslim Personal law and with the consent of the parties the Nikah had been performed. Under section 11 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ['POCSO' for short] so also under section 3 & 16 of the said Act and also under Section 376 read with 114 IPC, after the investigation, the chargesheet had been laid. It is the case of the applicants that Islam permits marriage at the age of 15 years, therefore, the limitation prescribed under the law for marriage of 18 years for the girl would not come in the way of the applicants. Moreover, the Court added Sections 4 & 17 of the POCSO which are the provisions prescribed for punishment under Section 3 and 16 respectively, that also has aggrieved the applicants. Learned advocate Mr. Malik appearing for all the applicants has urged that it is an internal dispute of the family which has brought to the fore the factum of child marriage. He has urged that the girl's statement also reveals that the paternal uncle of the girl since did not enjoy good relationship with the family, has complained against such marriage. He urged that the applicants are not only aggrieved by imposition of Section 4 & 17 of the POSCO but also for non grant of their application where they made a request for discharge from all the offences. He has fervently urged that the radiological report is clearly indicative of the fact that the prosecutrix is between 16 -18 years and therefore also, this Court requires to interfere with the order of discharge passed by the learned Sessions Judge, Dhrangadhra. Learned APP Ms. Punani has urged that the very object of the Act of 2012 is to protect the children who are not adequately protected, as they require security at the tender age. She urged that the age of prosecutrix was 13 years at the time of her so-called marriage, and therefore, the trial Court was right in not discharging the applicants-accused of the charges levelled against them. She further urged that Section 3 of the POSCO Act, 2012 speaks of penetrative sexual assault; Section 4 prescribes punishment for penetrative sexual assault and Section 16 likewise is with respect to abetment of an offence and section 17 prescribes punishment for abetment. Such additions, therefore, would not warrant any interference. Having thus heard both the sides, for the reasons to follow hereinafter, this application deserves dismissal. When there is sufficient ground existing for the Court to frame the charges on the basis of evidence that may be adduced by the prosecution by way of paper of chargesheet, the Court can frame the charges. Once the case is presented to the Court, it is required of the Court to sift through the material and it becomes its bounden duty to ensure that the reasonable ground is made out from such material for the Court to frame the charges. The law on the subject is well-settled. It is also reiterated recently, referring to all earlier laws by the Apex Court in case of L Krishna Reddy v. State by Station House Officer & Ors. , reported in (2014) 14 SCC 401. As could be noticed from the material on record, the birth date of the prosecutrix is 10th September 1999. The marriage according to the prosecution took place with the applicant no. 1 herein on 23rd August 2013 when the prosecutrix was only 13 years old. The trial Court has rightly observed that the victim being less than 15 years of age, the provisions of POSCO Act 2012 which are otherwise meant for protecting the abuse of the children have been rightly invoked, even if the parents were agreeable to such marriage, the law will take its own course. Moreover, addition of Sections 4 & 17 is merely incidental as substantive provisions of Sections 3 & 16 were already forming part of the chargesheet. On neither count, this application warrants interference at the hands of this Court. Moreover, there is no grave miscarriage of justice nor there is any manifest illegality which deserves indulgence. Resultantly, Criminal Misc. Application fails and the same is rejected.

[case 109]
K. Vijay vs The State on 29 November, 2022. This Criminal Original Petition has been preferred to call for the records in Spl. SC. No. 27 of 2020 on the file of the Principal District Judge cum Special Judge (Under POCSO Act) Puducherry and quash the same. The first petitioner is the sole accused in Crime No. 92 of 2019 on the file of the first respondent police. The second petitioner is the wife of the first petitioner. The Child Welfare Committee, Puducherry, has given the complaint to the first respondent that the first petitioner had committed sexual offences on the second petitioner. The said case came to be registered when the second petitioner who was conceived then, went to Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital, Puducherry for medical check up. The second petitioner was married to the first petitioner as early as on 27. 04. 2019 and they started to live as a family at the first petitioner's house at Puducherry. When the second petitioner got pregnant, she was taking treatment at Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital, Puducherry. During the medical examination, she revealed her age that she was 16 years old and that prompted the Hospital authorities to pass information to the second respondent Child Welfare Committee and the second respondent, in turn, had given a complaint to the first respondent Police on the above allegation; and on which, FIR has been registered under Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 after investigation, final report was filed and the same has been taken on file in Spl. SC. No. 27 of 2020 for the offences under Section 361 IPC read with Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Section 9 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, on the file of the Principal District Judge cum Special Judge (Under POCSO Act) Puducherry. When the matter is taken up for hearing, both the petitioners present before this Court and filed their respective affidavits dated 10. 11. 2022 stating that the relationship between them is out of their marriage that had been taken place in the year 2019 and their marital life cannot be taken as a criminal offence. At no point of time, the second petitioner had intended to give any complaint against the first petitioner. Because she considers the first petitioner as her husband and for whom, she had delivered one female child. Now, the second petitioner is pregnant for her second child and the matter came to be known only when she had been to the hospital for her routine medical check up. Further, both the petitioners have also filed their respective affidavits dated 10. 11. 2022 stating that the continuation of the prosecution would only spoil their peaceful family life and also the future of their daughter. When enquired, both the petitioners submitted that they fell in love with each other and hence, they got married and their marital life is happy and peaceful. No useful purpose is going to be served by subjecting the first petitioner under trial. Even though the offence is non-compoundable, in the extraneous circumstances of the present case, I feel it is appropriate to rely on the principles laid down by the Honble Supreme Court in the case of PARBATBHAI AAHIR VS. STATE OF GUJARAT [AIR 2017 SC 4843] to quash the proceedings. In the said case, in Paragraph 15, it has held as under: 15. The Broad Principles which emerge from the precedents on the subject, may be summarised in the following propositions: (i) Section 482 Cr. P. C preserves the inherent powers of the High Court to prevent an abuse of the process of any court or to secure the ends of justice. The provision does not confer new powers. It only recognises and preserves powers which inherent in the High Court. (ii) The invocation of the jurisdiction of the High Court to quash a first information report or a criminal proceeding on the ground that a settlement has been arrived at between the offender and the victim is not the same as the invocation of jurisdiction for the purpose of compounding an offence. While compounding an offence, the power of the court is governed by the provisions of Section 320 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. The power to quash under Section 482 is attracted even if the offence is non-compoundable. In the result, this Criminal Original Petition is allowed and as a sequel, the further proceedings in Spl. SC. No. 27 of 2020 on the file of the learned Principal District Judge Cum Special Judge (Under POCSO Act) Puducherry is quashed.

[case 110]
Karnataka High Court Pankajamma vs State Of Karnataka on 1 February, 2024 Author: Mohammad Nawaz Bench: Mohammad Nawaz NC: 2024: KHC: 4370 CRL. P No. 355 of 2024. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 1ST DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2024 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE MOHAMMAD NAWAZ CRIMINAL PETITION NO. 355 OF 2024 BETWEEN: PANKAJAMMA, W/O LATE RAJEGOWDA, AGED ABOUT 67 YEARS, R/AT NO. 1, B. M. ROAD, KARIGOWDA COLONY, CHANNARAYAPATNA TALUK, HASSAN DISTRICT - 573 201. (ACCUSED NO. 2). .. PETITIONER (BY SRI. MAHESH B. J. ,ADVOCATE) AND: STATE OF KARNATAKA, SHO, HASSAN WOMEN PS, HASSAN DISTRICT, REPTD. BY GOVT. PLEADER, HIGH COURT BUILDING, BENGALURU - 560 001. .. .RESPONDENT (BY SRI. K. NAGESHWARAPPA HCGP. ,) THIS CRL. P IS FILED U/S. 438 CR. P. C PRAYING TO ENLARGE THE PETITIONER ON BAIL IN THE EVENT OF HIS ARREST IN CR. NO. 117/2023 OF HASSAN WOMEN P. S. , HASSAN FOR THE OFFENCE P/U/S. 498-A, 323, 324, 504, 342, 506, 313 R/W SEC. 34 OF IPC AND SEC. 3, 4 OF DP ACT PENDING ON THE FILE OF THE VII ADDITIONAL CIVIL JUDGE (Jr. Dn. ) AND JMFC COURT HASSAN. THIS PETITION, COMING ON FOR ORDERS, THIS DAY, THE COURT MADE THE FOLLOWING: ORDER Heard the learned counsel for petitioner, the learned High Court Government Pleader for respondent/State and perused the material on record. The petitioner is arraigned as accused No. 2 in Crime No. 117/2023 of Hassan Women Police Station, registered for the offence punishable under Sections 498A, 323, 324, 504, 342, 506 and 313 read with 34 of IPC and Sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act. The complaint averments reveal that the complainant Smt. Pooja Y. C married accused No. 1 Sri. Venkatesh Gowda T. R on 24. 04. 2023 as per Hindu customs at one Shubhodaya Kalyana Mantapa, Hassan. At the time of marriage 180 grams of gold ornaments and Rs. 3, 00, 000/- dowry was given. The complainant was looked after properly only for two months and thereafter, her husband and mother-in-law i. e; the petitioner started demanding further dowry of Rs. 5, 00, 000/-and in this connection they were giving physical and mental torture to her. It is further alleged that when the complainant was one and half month pregnant, she was forced to abort the child and her husband and mother-in-law abused her and asked her to do all the household works and they have assaulted her and her husband kicked her on her stomach, due to which she got admitted to hospital on 18. 11. 2023 and the child got aborted. The learned counsel for the petitioner has drawn the attention of the Court to the statement of the complainant which was recorded by the police on 28. 10. 2023 i. e. , prior to lodging of the present complaint. It goes to show that the relationship between the husband and wife was strained and therefore, the elders and family members intervened and tried to settle. In her statement she has stated that if their relationship continues to be uncordial, she will settle the matter before the Family Court. The present complaint is lodged on 30. 11. 2023. The allegation of kicking on the stomach of the complainant is against her husband i. e; accused No. 1. It is also alleged that the complainant saw some vulgar messages in his mobile phone and when she questioned him, she was assaulted by him etc. The petitioner is a woman aged about 67 years. She has undertaken to co-operate with the investigation of the case. Considering that the offence alleged are not punishable with death or imprisonment for life, relief sought by the petitioner can be granted imposing conditions. Hence, the following: ORDER i) Petition is allowed. ii) Petitioner/accused No. 2 in Crime No. 117/2023 of Hassan Women Police Station, shall be released in the event of her arrest, subject to following conditions: a) Petitioner shall appear before the Investigation Officer within a period of one week from the date of receipt of a copy of the order and shall execute a bond in a sum of Rs. 1, 00, 000/- (Rupees One Lakh Only) with a likesum surety. b) She shall furnish proof of her residential address and shall inform the Investigation Officer/Court, if there is change in the address. c) She shall be available for the purpose of investigation as and when required and shall co-operate with the investigation. d) She shall not leave the jurisdiction of the trial Court without prior permission till completion of the investigation of the case. e) She shall not tamper with the prosecution witnesses either directly or indirectly. f) She shall be regular in attending the Court proceedings.

[case 111]
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / vs The State - Rep. By on 16 November, 2017
This criminal appeal is against the conviction and sentence passed by the Mahila Judge, Coimbatore. The appellant / accused is convicted by the Trial Court for the offences punishable under Section 5 (l), (m), (n) and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 and sentenced to undergo life imprisonment and also to pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- and in default, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of three months. The case of the prosecution as could be discerned from the evidence is as follows: The defacto complainant Nithya (PW1) is the wife of the appellant / accused Vishnubhaskar. The PW1 and the appellant were living separated for the last two years and Nithya (PW1) had left her girl child aged 3 years and 9 months with her parents living in Coimbatore, as she was employed in Bangalore. The victim child was unwell on 07. 10. 2015 and since PW1 was in Bangalore and could not make it, she had requested her husband (Accused) who was living in Coimbatore at Maniyakaranpalayam, Ganapathy, Coimbatore, to take the child to the hospital. The child was reportedly taken to Sri Ramakrishna Hospital and admitted for treatment and subsequently discharged on 08. 10. 2015. Further on 17. 10. 2015 and subsequent days the child was taken out by her father (Accused) at the behest of Nithya (PW1), during which time he committed penetrative sexual assault on his own child under the guise of checking her private part for any insect. The child had symptoms of restlessness, sleeplessness, frequent urination and itchy sensation in her private part and it was on 23. 10. 2015, that the child narrated her ordeal to Meenakshi (PW2) and to Shakunthala (PW4) who are the sister-in-law and mother of PW1 respectively. PW1 was informed immediately and she rushed to Coimbatore and took the child to the Sri Ramakrishna Hospital on 24. 10. 2015 at about 05. 00 PM. Dr. Saranya Manickaraj (PW13) physically examined the child and her systemic examination report was marked as Ex. P14 in which it was mentioned as 'hymen intact' and no external injuries. Subsequently, the childline was informed by PW13 who in turn referred the child for psychological evaluation by Vazikatti a Non-Governmental Organization (NGO). PW1 also lodged a complaint (Ex. P1) with the Sub-Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Coimbatore and the same was registered as First Information Report (FIR) in Crime No. 19/2015 by Tmt. Prema (PW14) Sub-Inspector of Police. Tmt. Rajeshwari (PW15) Inspector of Police referred the child for medical examination to the Government Hospital at Coimbatore on the same date. Dr. Sasikala (PW12) examined the child at about 10. 15 PM on 24. 10. 2015 and found the hymen absent. She also found the vagina mucosa pinkish in colour and an abrasion of 0. 5 cm on the right hand side of the private part of the child. A copy of Accident Register dated 24. 10. 2015 was marked as Ex. P13. Tmt. Rajeshwari (PW15) also recorded the statement of PW1 and PW4 on 24. 10. 2015 and on the next day i. e. on 25. 10. 2015, recorded the statements of PW2, PW5 & PW6 under Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thereafter, she arrested the accused, father of the victim child and prepared an observation Mahazar (Ex. P16) and also recorded the confession statement of the accused in the presence of Mohan Daniel (PW7) and Ramkumar (PW9). Tmt. Priyamalini (PW16) the Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Coimbatore who resumed duty after leave, took up the investigation and examined the child again on 26. 10. 2015. She also examined PW2 and took the child to the Judicial Magistrate III, Coimbatore for recording her statement under Section 164 of Criminal Procedure Code. On 06. 11. 2015, the accused was sent for potency test at Government Hospital, Coimbatore as per the order of Judicial Magistrate III, Coimbatore. Dr. Jayasingh (PW8) certified (Ex. P8) that there is nothing to suggest that the accused was impotent. This criminal appeal is against the conviction and sentence passed by the Mahila Judge, Coimbatore. The appellant / accused is convicted by the Trial Court for the offences punishable under Section 5 (l), (m), (n) and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 and sentenced to undergo life imprisonment and also to pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- and in default, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of three months.

[case 112]
Mohammed Abdul Hamid vs The State Rep. By on 2 December, 2022. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 02. 12. 2022. CORAM: THE HONOURABLE MS JUSTICE R. N. MANJULA. Crl. O. P. No. 29641 of 2022 Mohammed Abdul Hamid. .. Petitioner Vs. 1. The State rep. by Inspector of Police, T-14 Mangadu Police, Chennai  600 056. (Crime No. 76 of 2021) 2. Salim. .. Respondents Criminal Original Petition filed under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code, to call for the records in Crime No. 76 of 2021 on the file of the 1st respondent and quash the same. For Petitioners: Mr. K. Thenrajan For 1st Respondent: Mr. E. Raj Thilak Additional Public Prosecutor ORDER This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to call for the records in Crime No. 76 of 2021 on the file of the 1st respondent and quash the same. On the complaint given by the 2nd respondent that his sister's daughter was missing from 12. 12. 2021, a case has been registered for girl missing in Crime No. 76 of 2021 on the file of the T-14 Mangadu Police Station, Chennai 600 056 and subsequently the charges have been altered from girl missing to Sections 6 r/w 5J (ii) (i) POCSO Act, 2012. Today when the matter is taken up for hearing, it is submitted that the petitioner had married the victim girl as per Muslim rites and customs and the couple has a three months old infant born out of their marriage. It is further submitted that the de facto complainant who is the paternal uncle of the victim girl has also filed an affidavit by stating that in view of the marriage between the victim and the petitioner, he does not want to pursue the case. The petitioner, the defacto complainant, the victim girl and her mother were present before this Court and they were identified by the Police viz. , Ms. K. Gracy, SSI, SRMC All Women Police Station, Mangadu. The 2nd respondent has produced the copy of the Aadhar Card. A joint compromise memo, dated 02. 12. 2022 has also been filed. The second respondent has stated that she affixed her signature without fear or coercion. The records would reveal that the date of birth of the victim girl is 03. 06. 2004 and she has attained majority. As it has been stated already, the marriage between the victim girl and the accused had taken place and they have constituted a family and become parents for a female child. In such circumstances, if the prosecution is allowed to continue, that will not serve any useful purpose and that will de-stabilize the family equilibrium of the petitioner and the victim. Even though the offences under POCSO Act are non-compoundable in nature, in the circumstances of the present case, I feel it is appropriate to take the cue from the principles laid down by the Honble Supreme Court in the case of Parbatbhai Aahir Vs. State of Gujarat reported in AIR 2017 SC 4843. In the said case, in Paragraph 15, it has held as under: 15. The Broad Principles which emerge from the precedents on the subject, may be summarised in the following propositions: (i) Section 482 Cr. P. C preserves the inherent powers of the High Court to prevent an abuse of the process of any court or to secure the ends of justice. The provision does not confer new powers. It only recognises and preserves powers which inherent in the High Court. (ii) The invocation of the jurisdiction of the High Court to quash a first information report or a criminal proceeding on the ground that a settlement has been arrived at between the offender and the victim is not the same as the invocation of jurisdiction for the purpose of compounding an offence. While compounding an offence, the power of the court is governed by the provisions of Section 320 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. The power to quash under Section 482 is attracted even if the offence is non-compoundable. The petitioner who had married the victim girl, if subjected to trial that would affect the interest of the victim girl herself. In order to serve the ends of justice, I feel it is appropriate to quash the criminal proceedings against the petitioner by invoking the powers of this Court under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. In the result, this Criminal Original Petition stands allowed and as a sequel, the further proceedings in Crime No. 76 of 2021 on the file of the 1strespondent, is quashed in terms of compromise. The terms of Joint Compromise Memo, dated 02. 12. 2022 shall form part of this Order.

[case 113]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD R/CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION NO. 10266 of 2021 PRAKASHBHAI GORDHANBHAI METAL (KODI PATEL) Versus STATE OF GUJARAT Appearance: A R KADRI(7330) for the Applicant(s) No. 1 MR PRANAV TRIVEDI APP(2) for the Respondent(s) No. 1 CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. H. VORA Date: 22/06/2021 ORAL ORDER Rule. Learned APP waives service of notice of rule for the respondent - State. 1. Heard learned advocate for the applicant and learned APP for the respondent State. 2. This application is filed under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for regular bail in connection with F. I. R. registered at C. R. No. 11215029200377 of 2020 with Tarapur Police Station for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366 and 376 of the IPC and u/s 4, 6 and 18 of the POCSO Act. 3. Learned advocate for the applicant has submitted that the applicant and the prosecutrix were in love with each other and the prosecutrix accompanied the applicant of her own and thereby, abandoned the guardianship of her parents voluntarily. 4. Learned APP, while opposing the application, has submitted that at the relevant time, the prosecutrix was aged 17 years and 07 months. She being the minor, the question of consent does not arise and therefore, the offence u/s 376 read with POCSO Act has been committed and therefore, the applicant may not be enlarged on bail. 5. Heard learned advocates appearing for the respective parties in great detail and perused the records. 6. Though the applicant is married having one child fell in love with the victim girl. As the prosecutrix was minor, the applicant is sent behind prison because of the complaint lodged by the complainant. Undoubtedly, a minor girl is to be protected under law as there are number of instances of sexual abuses of minor girls and therefore, there is a special legislation of POCSO in the year 2012 and amendment in sections 375 and 376 of the IPC in 2014. The judiciary takes a very serious note of sexual offences against women and specially against minor girls. Upon reading of the statement of the prosecutrix, they both eloped. Further, the trial Court rejected bail application mainly on the ground that the girl is minor and her consent is immaterial. 7. In the present case, the prosecutrix is 17 years and 07 months old and the accused is 21 years old. It appears from the record and the statement of the prosecutrix that the prosecutrix was in love with the applicant and left the home of her own and moved with the applicant at various places. These are the mitigating factors and therefore, present application deserves consideration. 8. Hence, the application is allowed and the applicant is ordered to be released on bail in connection with C. R. No. 11215029200377 of 2020 with Tarapur Police Station, on executing a bond of Rs. 10, 000/-(Rupees Ten Thousand only) with one surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial Court and subject to the conditions that the applicant shall; [a] not take undue advantage of liberty or misuse liberty; [b] not act in a manner injurious to the interest of the prosecution; [c] not leave the territory of India without prior permission of the Sessions Judge concerned; [d] appear before the Investigation Officer concerned, as and when required for investigation purpose and attend the Court concerned regularly. [e] furnish the present address of residence along with the proof to the I. O. concerned and also to the Court at the time of execution of the bond and shall not change the residence without prior permission of Sessions Court concerned; 9. The competent authority will release the applicant only if the applicant is not required in connection with any other offence for the time being. If breach of any of the above conditions is committed, the Sessions Judge concerned will be free to take appropriate action in the matter. Bail bond to be executed before the lower court having jurisdiction to try the case. It will be open for the concerned Court to delete, modify and/or relax any of the above conditions in accordance with law. At the trial, the trial court shall not be influenced by the observations of preliminary nature, qua the evidence at this stage, made by this Court while enlarging the applicant on bail. 10. Rule made absolute to the aforesaid extent. Direct service is permitted.

[case 114]
State vs. Ajit, on 29 July, 2017 IN THE COURT OF SH. SANJAY GARG, ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE01, DWARKA COURTS, NEW DELHI. Sessions Case No. 440819/2016 State Vs. Ajit, S/o Sh. Uppender Kumar, R/o A207, J. J. Colony, Manglapuri, PhaseII, Palam, New Delhi. FIR No. : 706/2015 Police Station: Palam Village Under Section: 354A/354D/324 IPC & 12 POCSO Act Date of presentation of charge sheet: 25. 04. 2016 Date on which judgment was reserved: 29. 07. 2017 Date on which judgment was pronounced: 29. 07. 2017 JUDGMENT: 1. The FIR was registered on the complaint lodged by the child victim. At that time, she was about 15 years old. In the complaint, the child victim alleged that the accused used to follow her, hurl vulgar abuses and make indecent gestures to her. She further alleged that on 08. 12. 2015 at about 8 a. m. , when she alongwith her friend was going to school, the accused caught hold of her hand and proposed her for marriage and upon her refusal, he caused injury on her left hand with a blade and thereafter, pushed her due to which, she fell down and sustained injuries on her head. Consequent upon the registration of FIR, the accused was arrested. The statements of the witnesses under Section 161 Cr. P. C. were recorded. The statement of the child victim was also got recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C. After completion of investigation, the charge sheet was filed. 2. On 08. 07. 2016, the charge for the offences punishable under Sections 8/12 POCSO Act and Section 324 IPC was framed against the accused Ajit. He pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 3. The prosecution examined the child victim, her friend, father and mother as PW1 to PW4 respectively. 4. Vide order of even date, the remaining prosecution evidence was closed and the statement of the accused under Section 313 Cr. P. C. was dispensed with. 5. I have heard the Addl. PP for the State and the counsel for the accused. The material on record has also been perused. 6. The child victim and her friend were the star witnesses of the case of the prosecution. The child victim appeared in the witness box as PW1. In her deposition, though she corroborated the incident to the extent that a boy had proposed her for marriage near her school and upon her refusal, he had pushed her resulting in head injury to her but she turned hostile on the aspect of identity of the accused. She was cross-examined by the Addl. PP. In her cross-examination, she denied the suggestion of the Addl. PP that the accused used to follow her and reiterated that he had not met her on the date of the incident. As per the case of the prosecution, the child victim was accompanied with her friend on the date of incident. The friend of the child victim was examined by the prosecution as PW2. In her testimony, she also failed to support the case of the prosecution and did not utter anything incriminating against the accused. Besides the child victim and her friend, the prosecution examined the father and mother of the child victim as PW3 and PW4 respectively. However even they did not support the case of the prosecution and denied the suggestion of the Addl. PP that the child victim had told them that the accused used to follow her and had sexually assaulted her and caused injuries to her on the date of incident. Since the material witnesses had not supported the case of the prosecution, it would have been a futile exercise to examine the remaining prosecution witnesses, who were formal in nature. The prosecution evidence was therefore closed. As no incriminating evidence came on record against the accused, his statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. was dispensed with. 7. In the light of the above discussion, it is evident that the prosecution has miserably failed to bring home the guilt of the accused. Accordingly, the accused Ajit is acquitted of the charge for the commission of offences punishable under Sections 8/12 POCSO Act and Section 324 IPC. Bail bond in terms of Section 437A Cr. P. C. furnished on behalf of the accused has been accepted, which shall remain in force for a period of six months from today. Pronounced in the open court. (SANJAY GARG) Dated: 29. 07. 2017 Additional Sessions Judge01, Dwarka Courts, New Delhi. Sessions Case No. 440819/2016 State Vs. Ajit Page No. 3/3

[case 115]
Vikas Soni vs State Of U. P. & Another on 5 August, 2021. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH. Case: - CRIMINAL REVISION No. - 1461 of 2019. Revisionist: - Vikas Soni. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. & Another. Counsel for Revisionist: - Akhilesh Kumar Pandey. Counsel for Opposite Party: - Govt. Advocate. Hon'ble Mrs. Saroj Yadav, J. This criminal revision has been preferred by the juvenile Vikas Soni through his father, under Section 102 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act of 2015 against judgement and order dated 13. 9. 2019 passed by Special Judge, (POCSO Act), Pratapgarh in Criminal Appeal No. 51 of 2019 Vikas Soni Vs. State of U. P. and order dated 2. 7. 2019 passed by the learned Juvenile Justice Board, Pratapgarh in Bail Application No. 39 of 2019 arising out of Case Crime No. 31 of 2018 under Sections 41, 411, 413, 414, 401 of Indian Penal Code, Police Station Government Railway Police, Pratapgarh. The brief factual matrix necessary for disposal of this criminal revision are as under: On 10. 7. 2018, a First Information Report was registered at Crime No. 31 of 2018 at police Station G. R. P. , Pratapgarh under Sections 41, 411, 413, 414, 401 IPC on the basis of recovery memo prepared by Sub Inspector against the revisionist and three others. According to recovery memo, the revisionist alongwith three others was arrested on the information given by a fink at the railway station, Pratapgarh making preparation to commit theft. In search of the person of the revisionist, a mobile Samsung Phone of golden colour was recovered. He confessed that he has stolen the mobile from train 4-5 days back and trying to sell the same. It has also been mentioned in the recovery memo that he is a habitual thief and has committed thefts earlier also. Investigation started. Revisionist claimed juvenility and was so declared by the learned J. J. Board vide order dated 11. 6. 2019. His age was found 16 years. He moved bail application before the J. J. Board and the same was rejected. Against the order of JJ Board, an appeal was preferred under Section 101 of the Act of 2015, that too was rejected. Learned counsel for the revisionist submitted that the revisionist has falsely been implicated in the crime. The recovery has falsely been shown and there is no independent witness of the recovery. He further submitted that the revisionist was below 18 years of age on the date of the alleged crime. There is nothing adverse to the revisionist in the report of District Probation Officer. Learned A. G. A. on the other hand submitted that the revisionist is a habitual thief. Earlier also, he was detained and enlarged on bail for the offence of theft. Hence, judgment of the learned appellate court and the order of the learned J. J. Board are perfectly legal. The revision should be dismissed. Section 12(1) of the Act of 2015 lays down that when any person, who is apparently a child and is alleged to have committed a bailable or non-bailable offence, is apprehended or detained by the police or appears or brought before a Board, such person shall, be released on bail with or without surety or placed under the supervision of a probation officer or under the care of any fit person, provided that such person shall not be so released if there appears reasonable grounds for believing that the release is likely to bring that person into association with any known criminal or expose the said person to moral, physical or psychological danger. The legal position is that, for a juvenile in conflict with law bail is the Rule. The bail to a juvenile can be denied exceptionally. From perusal of the record, it is discernible that the revisionist was arrested. The revisionist is in detention since 11. 7. 2018. He has spent more than three years in detention. Considering the above facts and circumstances, it appears just to set aside the orders passed by the learned J. J. Board and the judgement passed in appeal. The revision is allowed. The juvenile Vikas Soni shall be released on bail. It is pertinent to mention here, since the revisionist has now turned an adult, he shall be released upon furnishing a personal bond himself and two sureties each of the like amount.

[case 116]
Madras High Court Swetha Bhai vs State Rep By The Inspector Of Police on 4 November, 2022 IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 04. 11. 2022 CORAM: THE HON'BLE Ms. JUSTICE R. N. MANJULA CRL. O. P. No. 26875 of 2022 and Crl. M. P. Nos. 16509 & 16547 of 2022 Swetha Bhai. .. Petitioner/A2 Versus State Rep by the Inspector of Police, W-17 All Women Police Station, Peravallur, Chennai 600 082. [Crime No. 05/2022]. .. Prayer: Criminal Original Petition filed under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to call for the records in Spl. S. C. No. 122 of 2022 on the file of the Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases Under POCSO Act-2012, Chennai and quash the same. The petitioner is the mother of the victim child, who was also impleaded as an accused in the case registered by the Respondent/Police in Cr. No. 5/22 of W-17, All Women Police Station, for the offences under Sections 9(m)(n) r/w10 of POCSO Act & 21(1) of POCSO Act, 2012. Heard the submission made by the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the respondent police and perused the materials available on record. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the complaint was given by a CWC Member by name N. Lalitha; the allegation made in the complaint is that the victim child appeared disturbed at her school due to sexual abuse caused by her own father; she revealed the said facts to her teacher; on coming to know this, the Head Master of her School called the Child Help Line and thereafter the CWC members met the child, enquired her and filed this complaint; so far as the allegation against the petitioner is concerned, she did not report the occurrence to the police despite she had knowledge about the sexual abuse caused by her husband on her child. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing for the first respondent police submitted that despite the mother had the knowledge about the occurrence, she did not come forward to give a complaint and only because of that she had been impleaded as an accused. Since the defacto complainant has just set the law in motion and she is not the victim in this case, I feel it is sufficient to hear the learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing for the respondent police on behalf of the State. The records would show that the mother has been impleaded as an accused in this case on the allegation that she did not report the sexual abuse caused to her own daughter, to the police. It is a sad case where the perpetrator happened to be the very father of the minor child. In this difficult situation, it is not easy for both the victim and her mother to take decision about the appropriate legal action against the accused, who stand in a very close relationship with them. Even according to the complaint the mother of the victim had enquired about this to her husband during February 2022. Though allegations were made that the child had informed the occurrence to her mother during February 2017, the 164 statement of the child would show that she had informed her mother only during February 2022. As stated already, due to the difficult and intimate relationship of the victim and the petitioner with the accused, it can not be inferred that the petitioner had an intention to suppress the occurrence. It is needless to state that in sexual offences, the complaint can be given with some delay. And that may be due to social stigma and familial integrity and all other associated. Though such kind of occurrence should be reported immediately, if the perpetrator happens to be the father of the victim child, the mother cannot be expected to give a complaint without making thorough enquiry and ascertaining the facts from every angle and that may take some time. The gap between the time when the victim informed her mother and the date of the complaint made by the CWC Member is not too long. Hence, I feel the petitioner deserves to be given with the benefit of doubt even at the threshold level without subjected to futher process. In the result, the Criminal Original Petition is allowed and the FIR in Cr. No. 5/22 of W-17, All Women Police Station against the petitioner / A2 alone is quashed.

[case 117]
Muthu Kumar vs The State on 31 January, 2025. This Criminal Appeal arises out of the judgment of conviction and sentence rendered by the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under the POSCO Act, Chennai, in Spl. S. C. No. 195 of 2022, dated 31. 10. 2023. The appellant was tried along with one Bhuvaneswari (A2), the mother of the victim girl. The learned trial Judge found A2 guilty for the offence under Section 6 read with Section 17 @ 21(1) of the POCSO Act and convicted and sentenced her to undergo imprisonment for four months, and the period of detention already undergone has been set off under Section 428 Cr. P. C. The victim, P. W. 2, who was born on 15. 09. 2004, was a minor at the time of the incident. She had been living with her mother (A2) since her father separated from the family, taking the victim's brother with him. The appellant, an auto driver, came into contact with the victim's family when he began providing transportation. Later, he informed the victim's mother that he had divorced his wife, and the appellant and A2 began living together with the victim girl. Taking advantage of the mother's absence, the appellant forcibly committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl. This abuse continued, and the victim later became pregnant. She gave birth to a male child at home, and when complications arose with the umbilical cord, the victim sought medical treatment. This led to the involvement of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and the Police, bringing the crime to light. Following medical treatment, the Primary Health Centre staff, Nammalwarpet reported the case to the CWC after discovering the victim's pregnancy and minor status. The CWC informed the Police, and thereafter, the case was registered in Crime No. 11 of 2022 against the accused for the offences under Sections 5(j)(ii), 6 and 17 of the POCSO Act. During the investigation, the victim's statement was recorded. Subsequently, the victim was produced before a doctor and a Magistrate, where her statement under Section 164 of the Cr. P. C. was recorded. After recording statements from the witnesses and collecting the materials, the accused were arrested. A charge sheet was filed before the trial Court, listing 14 witnesses. Upon completion of the trial, the trial Court convicted the appellant (A1) under Section 6 of the POCSO Act. The second accused (A2) was convicted under Section 6 read with Section 17 @ 21 (1) of the POCSO Act. The learned counsel for the appellant contends that the trial Court's finding is contrary to both the law and the weight of the evidence. The learned counsel submits that the trial Court failed to properly consider the statement made by the victim, P. W. 2, who categorically stated that she and the appellant had got married, and that a male child was born out of their relationship. According to P. W. 2, she and the appellant were living together as husband and wife. P. W. 2 further stated that their baby developed an infection in the umbilical cord, and the baby was taken to the Public Health Centre for treatment. Additionally, the learned Government Advocate (Criminal side) submits that the de-facto complainant in this case is a member of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), who received information from the Public Health Centre in Nammalwarpet regarding the victim's condition. The trial Court correctly considered all the relevant materials and evidence in this case, including the victim's minor status, the DNA test report, and the statements recorded during the investigation. Based on this thorough and comprehensive analysis, the trial Court concluded that the appellant was guilty of the charges levelled against him. The victim hails from a marginalized background and lives in poverty. It is the appellant's family that takes care of the victim, supports her, and provides aid in all aspects. In the result, the criminal appeal is allowed; the conviction and sentences imposed on the appellant/A1 by judgment dated 31. 10. 2023, in Spl. S. C. No. 195 of 2022, by the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under the POCSO Act, Chennai, is set aside and he is acquitted from all the charges.

[case 118]
Mahalakshmy P. C vs State Of Kerala on 21 February, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE C. JAYACHANDRAN FRIDAY, THE 21ST DAY OF FEBRUARY 2025 / 2ND PHALGUNA, 1946 CRL. MC NO. 925 OF 2024 CRIME NO. 811/2021 OF BINANIPURAM POLICE STATION, ERNAKULAM IN CC NO. 29 OF 2022 OF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF FIRST CLASS-II, ALUVA PETITIONERS/ACCUSED: 1 MAHALAKSHMY P. C AGED 34 YEARS PULLARKADU HOUSE, MADAPLATHURUTH, MOOTHAKUNNAM P. O, ERANAKULAM DISTRICT. , PIN - 683516 2 CHITHARANJAN AGED 66 YEARS PULLARKADU HOUSE, MADAPLATHURUTH, MOOTHAKUNNAM P. O, ERANAKULAM DISTRICT. , PIN - 683516 3 SIVESWAR P. C AGED 30 YEARS PULLARKADU HOUSE, MADAPLATHURUTH, MOOTHAKUNNAM P. O, ERANAKULAM DISTRICT, PIN - 683516 BY ADV N. P. PRAJEESH RESPONDENTS/COMPLAINANT: 1 STATE OF KERALA REPRESENTED BY THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM, KOCHI. , PIN - 682031 2 SARASAMMA W/O MOHANAN, MOOPPAN PARAMBIL HOUSE, MUPPATHADAM, KADUNGALLUR P. O, ERANAKULAM DISTRICT, PIN-683110 Crl. M. C. No. 925 of 2024 2025: KER: 15509 -2- THIS CRIMINAL MISC. CASE HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 21. 02. 2025, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: Crl. M. C. No. 925 of 2024 2025: KER: 15509 -3- C. JAYACHANDRAN, J. ------------------------------------ Crl. M. C. No. 925 of 2024 ------------------------------------ Dated, this the 21st day of February, 2025 ORDER The petitioners herein are the accused persons in Crime no. 811/2021 of Binanipuram Police Station (Annexure-I), now pending as C. C. No. 29/2022 before the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court-II, Aluva. The petitioners seek quashment of the said crime and all further proceedings therein. 2. Heard the learned Counsel for the petitioners and the learned Public Prosecutor. Perused the records. 3. Learned Counsel for the petitioners submits that, the 1st petitioner is the legally wedded wife of one Pramod, who is the son of the defacto complainant in the instant crime. There were matrimonial disputes and due to harassment, the 1st petitioner/1st accused left the matrimonial home and started residing in her parental home. Petitioners 2 and 3 are her father and brother respectively, who were accused nos. 2 and 3 in the subject Crl. M. C. No. 925 of 2024 2025: KER: 15509 -4- crime. The 1st petitioner got information that during the subsistence of marriage with her, her husband Pramod is going to remarry. Accordingly, she lodged Annexure-V complaint before the jurisdictional Police, seeking police protection, so as to enable her to go back to the matrimonial home and reside there. Accordingly, on 06. 07. 2021, at 2 p. m, the petitioners reached the matrimonial home, where she was cruelly manhandled by the present defacto complainant, her husband and neighbours. A case has been registered in respect of the incident as Crime no. 810/2021 (Annexure-VII). According to the learned Counsel, the instant crime bearing no. 811/2021 is a counter blast to the same. It was also pointed out that the allegations leveled in the F. I. S. are trivial in nature, as against the 1st accused. There is no allegation, whatsoever, as against accused nos. 2 and 3 (petitioners 2 and 3), except that they have not opposed the acts of the 1st petitioner/1st accused. Learned Counsel would submit that, a perusal of Annexure-VII F. I. R. would indicate that it was the petitioners herein, who were abused and manhandled by the defacto complainant and others. Crl. M. C. No. 925 of 2024 2025: KER: 15509 -5- 4. This application was seriously opposed by the learned Public Prosecutor. 5. Having heard the learned Counsel appearing for the respective parties, this Court finds that the Crl. M. C. is liable to be allowed in part, as against petitioners 2 and 3. This Court perused the F. I. S. , which forms part of Annexure-I F. I. R. The allegations constituting the crime are extracted here below: " (06. 11. 2009)   behaviour and follow lawful proceedings. However, the same will stand allowed, as already indicated, against petitioners 2 and 3. 9. Learned Counsel for the petitioners submits that, the 1st petitioner/1st accused is having a child, aged ten years and her personal appearance may be exempted, except for crucial dates.

[case 119]
2. Heard Sri Arvind Yadav, learned counsel for the applicant and Sri Jitendra Singh, Advocate holding brief of Sri Rayoof Ali, learned counsel for the informant as well as Sri Ashwani Kumar Tripathi, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material placed on record.
3. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 191 of 2024, under Sections 363, 366, 376 of I. P. C. and Sections 5/6 of POCSO Act, Police Station - Dhanghata, District - Sant Kabir Nagar, during the pendency of trial.
4. Learned counsel for the applicant has argued that the applicant is absolutely innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case. He has nothing to do with the said offence as alleged in the FIR.
5. Learned counsel has also stated that the victim is the deponent in the instant application. The victim by her looks seems to be major. Learned counsel has also stated that a child has been born out of the said corporeal relationship and the victim has expressed her willingness to spend her life with the applicant.
6. Several other submissions have been made on behalf of the applicant to demonstrate the falsity of the allegations made against him. The circumstances which, as per counsel, led to the false implication of the applicant have also been touched upon at length. There is no criminal history of the applicant. The applicant is languishing in jail since 30. 09. 2024 and he is ready to cooperate with trial. In case, the applicant is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail.
7. Per contra, learned A. G. A. and learned counsel for the informant have no objection.
8. In light of the judgement of the Supreme Court passed in Niranjan Singh and another vs Prabhakar Rajaram Kharote and others AIR 1980 SC 785, this Court has avoided detailed examination of the evidence and elaborate documentation of the merits of the case as no party should have the impression that his case has been prejudiced. A prima facie satisfaction of case is needed but it is not the same as an exhaustive exploration of the merits in the order itself.
9. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, submissions made by learned counsel for the parties, the evidence on record, and taking into consideration the settled law of the Supreme Court passed in Satender Kumar Antil vs. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. , 2022 INSC 690 and Manish Sisodia vs. Directorate of Enforcement, 2024 INSC 595 and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the Court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed.
10. Let the applicant- Ajay, who is involved in aforementioned case crime be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following conditions. Further, before issuing the release order, the sureties be verified.
(i) The applicant shall not tamper with evidence.
(ii) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the Trial Court on dates fixed for (1) opening of the case, (2) framing of charge and (3) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. / 351BNSS If in the opinion of the Trial Court absence of the applicant is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the Trial Court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against him in accordance with law.
11. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail.
12. It is made clear that observations made in granting bail to the applicant shall not in any way affect the learned trial Judge in forming his independent opinion based on the testimony of the witnesses.

[case 120]
This Civil Revision Petition arise against the order passed by the learned I Additional Principal Judge, Family Court, at Chennai in IA No. 1 of 2023 in IDOP No. 1921 of 2023 dated 01. 12. 2023. The Civil Revision Petitioner is the husband. The wife presented IDOP No. 1921 of 2023 seeking for divorce under Section 10(1)(x) of the Indian Divorce Act. The petitioner married the respondent as per Christian rites and customs on 26. 06. 2013. From the wed-lock, a girl child was born to the couple. Thereafter disputes and differences arose between the parties. Alleging that the husband physically and verbally abused the wife and treated her with cruelty, the wife approached the All Women Police Station at Vepery. Finding that it was not fruitful, she presented the above original petition. Summons was served on the respondent, he has entered appearance. Pending the litigation, she took out an application invoking Section 36 of the Indian Divorce Act, 1869. She sought for a direction to the husband to pay a sum of Rs. 30, 000/- to herself and her child and Rs. 25, 000/- towards maintenance. The husband filed a counter stating that the wife is a triple degree holder and she is working in an I. T. Company under the name and style of Zoho. He would plead that since she is earning a sum of Rs. 45, 000/- per month, she is not entitled to maintenance. Insofar as the litigation is concerned, he would state that the legal services authority is giving free legal aid to litigants and that the party could approach the said Authority for legal defence. Both the parties filed their affidavit of assets and liabilities as directed by the Supreme Court in Rajnesh v. Neha and another, reported in AIR 2021 (SC) 569. The learned Trial Judge came to a conclusion that the husband is earning around Rs. 26, 000/- per month and he is employed with CSS Corp Chennai as Technical Support. Therefore, she concluded that a sum of Rs. 12, 000/- i. e. , Rs. 6, 000/- each to the petitioner and the girl child would be reasonable in the circumstances. Challenging the said order, this revision arise. Mr. P. Sankara Narayanan, learned counsel would plead that the learned Trial Judge did not take into consideration that the wife is earning more than the husband and therefore, she is not entitled for any amount. He would plead that he would take care of the interest of the child, but cannot maintain the wife, on account of the fact that she is earning more than him and also to the fact that he is suffering from physical ailments and has to take care of the needs of his aged mother. Hence he would plead that the revision deserves admission and an interim order. I have carefully considered the submissions of Mr. Sankara Narayanan. At the outset I have to remind myself that the Court sitting under revision under Article 227 of the Constitution of India, would not normally interfere with the order of interim maintenance, unless and until the amount is arbitrary, excessive or bordering on luxury to the respondent. The amount granted to both the parties is only Rs. 12, 000/-. This works out to about Rs. 200/- per day. The parties are residence of Metropolitan City of Chennai. Therefore, the amount which has been awarded by the Court cannot be said to suffer from any of the aforesaid vices. Furthermore, the fact that the wife is earning does not mean she is disentitled to receive maintenance. In terms of Section 36 of the Indian Divorce Act, the wife is entitled to seek maintenance not only for herself but also for the child. The child is around eight years. Her financial demand will obviously be more than the paltry sum of Rs. 6, 000/- that has been fixed by the learned Trial Judge. It is not as if that the amount that is paid to the wife is going to be exclusively used by her. There is no dispute that the mother has the custody of the child and is attending to her day to day needs. Finding that the amount is not excessive, I am not inclined to interfere. The Civil Revision Petition is dismissed. There shall be no order as to costs. Consequently, the connected miscellaneous petition is dismissed.

[case 121]
Chandru vs State Of Karnataka on 4 January, 2024 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 4TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2024 The appellant was the sole accused in Sessions Case No. 40 of 2016 before the trial Court. For the purpose of convenience, the parties are referred to henceforth according to their ranks before the trial Court. The accused was tried in Sessions Case No. 40 of 2016 for the offences punishable under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act on the basis of the charge-sheet filed by Kolar Town Police in Crime No. 221 of 2015 of their Police Station. The case of the prosecution in brief is as follows: PW1 is the mother of PW2-victim. She was married to one Venkatesh of Channasandra, Bengaluru, and out of the said wedlock, the couple had two daughters i. e. the victim and CW3. Since three years prior to 17-12-2015, the accused was in illicit relationship with PW1. About two years back, he enticed PW1 with her two daughters and started residing with them at Karanjikatte of Kolar Town taking a house on rent from PW5-Papanna. PW2 and CW3 were aged about 14 and 8 years, respectively. They were studying in Kamala Mahadi Higher Primary School, Kolar. The accused was doing Masonry work and PW1 was working as Domestic help. The accused was addicted to alcohol. Due to his addiction to alcohol, PW1 was not giving him physical proximity. To appease his lust, the accused eyed on PW2. For that purpose, one day in March, 2015 at 1: 00 p. m. , he brought PW2 back home from the school representing that PW1 was unwell and committed penetrative sexual assault on her in the house and threatened her that if she reveals the incident to PW1 or CW3, he will kill all of them. Thereafter, he kept committing penetrative sexual assault frequently. Ultimately, PW2 became pregnant. When she became indisposable due to such conception, PW1 took her to SNR Hospital, Kolar. In the said hospital, PW11-Dr. Shanthi examined PW2 and found her nine months pregnant. On issuance of the MLC intimation, PW3-District Child Protection Officer visited the hospital and their enquiry revealed that the accused sexually abused PW2 and that she was eight months pregnant. PW13-Sunitha Devi, Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police, visited the hospital and recorded the statement of the victim as per Ex. P2 and submitted the report to PW14. Based on Ex. P2, PW14-Sub-Inspector of Police of Kolar Town Police Station registered an F. I. R. against the accused as per Ex. P14 and handed over the case for further investigation to PW15-Shivaprasad. During investigation, PW15 arrested the accused and referred the victim to radiological examination to assess her age. Since she was pregnant, she could not be subjected to ossification test. Pending investigation, the victim delivered a female child on 11-1-2016. The trial Court on hearing the accused, framed the charges against him for the offences punishable under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act. As the accused denied the charges and claimed to be tried, the trial was conducted. In support of the case of the prosecution, PW1 to PW15 were examined and Exs. P1 to P15 were marked. The trial Court examined the accused under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 with reference to incriminating evidence. The accused did not lead any defence evidence. The trial Court on hearing the parties, relying upon the evidence of PWs. 1, 2 and other official witnesses held that the charges against the accused are proved beyond reasonable doubt. By the impugned judgment and order, the trial Court convicted the appellant for the offences punishable under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act. Further, the trial Court sentenced him to different terms of sentence and imprisonment as per the table below: Convicted for Sl. Sentence Fine in Default the Offence under Section 1. 6 of the Life 10, 000/- Imprisonment POCSO Act Imprisonment of 1 month 2. 376 of the IPC Simple 5, 000/- Imprisonment imprisonment of 10 years The appellant has challenged the said order in the above appeal.

[case 122]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT THE HONOURABLE DR. JUSTICE KAUSER EDAPPAGATH Friday, the 18th day of February 2022 / 29th Magha, 1943 CRL. M. APPL. NO. 1/2020 IN CRL. A NO. 437 OF 2020 SC 102/2015 OF THE ADDITIONAL SESSIONS COURT - I, KOTTAYAM PETITIONER/APPELLANT: THOMAS @ JOSHY, AGED 37 YEARS, S/O. THOMMY, PUTHENPURAKAL VEEDU, NAKRAL, PUTHUVAL BHAGOM, PERUNNA WEST KARA, CHANGANACHERRY. RESPONDENT/RESPONDENT: STATE OF KERALA, REP. BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM 682 031. Application praying that in the circumstances stated therein the High Court be pleased to suspend the execution of the sentence imposed on the appellant in the judgment dated 18. 03. 2020 in S. C. No. 102/2015 of the Additional Sessions Judge-I, Kottayam pending disposal of this appeal and to grant bail to the petitioner/appellant. This Application coming on for orders upon perusing the application and upon hearing the arguments of GEORGE SEBASTIAN, SRI. BOBBY JOHN, Advocates for the petitioner and of the PUBLIC PROSECUTOR for the respondent, the court passed the following: ORDER Crl. M. A. No. 1/2020 This is an application filed to suspend the execution of sentence. The petitioner/appellant has been convicted for the offences punishable under Sections 377, 376(2)(f), 376(2)(i), 376(2)(j) and 376(2)(k), 376(2)(n) of IPC and Section 6 read with 5(l), 5(m) and 5(n) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act for short). He is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 30, 000/- for the offence punishable under Section 6 of the POCSO Act. Separate punishment is not ordered under Sections 376(2)(f), 376(2)(i), 376(2)(j) and 376(2)(k) and 376(2)(n) of IPC as provided in Section 42 of the POCSO Act. I have heard Sri. . George Sebastian, the learned counsel for the petitioner and Smt. Sheeba Thomas, the learned Public Prosecutor. The victim is none other than the daughter of the petitioner. The incident had taken place when the victim was only 10 months of age. The petitioner who should have been the protector of the child as a father, turned out to be a demon and sexually abused his own child. I went through the relevant portion of the judgment. Paragraph 12 of the judgment deals with the evidence of PW1 who is the mother of the victim and wife of the petitioner. She specifically deposed that the incident had taken place on 24/1/2015 and 25/1/2015. According to her, she saw traces of semen on the hip and corner of the mouth of the victim, who was only 7 months age at that time. She further deposed that on seeing this, she searched the accused and he was found lying naked on the bed. She further deposed that on the next day she witnessed the accused putting his sexual organ into the mouth of the victim and inserting his finger into her vagina. PW3 is the doctor. Ext. P2 is the wound certificate. Paragraph 24 of the judgment deals with the evidence of the doctor. The doctor deposed that she examined the victim and issued Ext. P2 wound certificate. According to the doctor, PW1 narrated the history of rape, oral sex and putting fingers into the vagina of the victim by the petitioner. The doctor further deposed that on examination, the hymen of the victim was found absent. I am not commenting on these evidence at this stage for the reason that it has to be considered at the time of final hearing. However, the fact remains that the court below believed the testimony of PW1 as well as PW3. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that there is seven days' delay in registering the FIR and no independent witnesses were examined. The learned counsel further submitted that there was marital dispute between the petitioner and PW1 and hence the evidence of PW1 could not have been relied on. I cannot rely on those submissions as such. Those contentions can be raised at the time of final hearing. Considering the heinous nature of crime committed by the petitioner, I am of the view that his sentence cannot be suspended. Accordingly, this application is dismissed.

[case 123]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ALEXANDER THOMAS FRIDAY, THE 15TH DAY OF MARCH 2019 / 24TH PHALGUNA, 1940 Bail Appl. .No. 1715 of 2019 AGAINST THE ORDER/JUDGMENT IN CRMC 321/2019 of DISTRICT COURT & SESSIONS COURT, ERNAKULAM CRIME NO. 31/2019 OF Koothattukulam Police Station, ErnakulamPETITIONER/S: REJI. P, AGED 42 YEARS S/O ITHAPIRI, PUNNEDATH MOOLAYALIL, OLIYAPURAM P. O. OLIYAPURAM, ERNAKULAM, HAVING PERMANENT ADDRESS AT PUNNEDATHUMOOLAYALIL, NERIYAMPARA, KATTAPPANA, IDUKKI. BY ADVS. SRI. GEO PAUL SRI. C. R. PRAMOD SRI. RADHIKA RAJASEKHARAN P. SRI. SANU MATHEWRESPONDENT/S: STATE OF KERALA, THROUGH SUB INSPECTOR OF POLICE, KOOTHATTUKULAM POLICE STATION, ERNAKULAM, REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM 682 031. OTHER PRESENT: SRI. SAIGI JACOB PALATTY, PUBLIC PROSECUTOR THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 15. 03. 2019, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: ORDER The petitioner has been arrayed as the sole accused in Crime No. 31/2019 of Koothattukulam Police Station, which has been registered for offences punishable under Sec. 3 r/w Secs. 4 & 9(m) of the POCSO Act. The defacto complainant is involved in the crime is the wife of the petitioner and the alleged victim is the elder minor daughter of the petitioner aged 8 years. The brief of the prosecution allegation is that the when the above persons are living together with their children (2 daughters), the petitioner has sexually abused the elder daughter from the year 2018 and thus committed the abovesaid offence. The petitioner would allege that the petitioner's wife is suffering from Paranioa and she is under treatment of Dr. Suresh Nainan, Psychiatrist, Karithas Hospital, Kottayam, and she was advised to take medicines continuously. Even going by Anx-A1 complaint, which is made to the Taluk Legal Service Committee would disclose that her allegations are raised on the basis of suspicion that the petitioner has sexually abused the elder daughter in her absence. The petitioner would point out that minor victim was under treatment for cyst/constipation and she was under treatment for the same in MOSC Medical Mission Hospital, Kolencherry and requisite ointment was prescribed for medication for the above medical condition as evident from Anx-A2 treatment record and that the petitioner has rectally administered the said ointment to the child only for the purpose of medication as prescribed by the Doctor and that even the version given in Anx-A1 would be indicative of the abovesaid aspects. Further it is submitted that the wife is now residing separately and both the daughter are residing with the wife and the petitioner is residing alone. Taking note of the facts and circumstances disclosed in this petition, this Court is of the view that the plea for pre-arrest bail could be granted subject to necessary conditions. Accordingly, it is ordered that in the event of the petitioner being arrested in connection with Crime No. 31/2019 of Koothattukulam Police Station, then he shall be released on bail on his executing a bond for Rs. 40, 000/- (Rupees Fourty Thousand only) and on furnishing two solvent sureties for the like sum each to the satisfaction of the Investigating Officer concerned. Further it is also ordered that it will be subject to following conditions: (i) The petitioner shall not involve in any criminal offences of similar nature. (ii) The petitioner shall fully co-operate with the investigation. (iii) The petitioner shall report before the Investigating Officer as and when required in that connection. (iv) The petitioner shall not influence witness or shall not tamper or attempt to tamper evidence in any manner, whatsoever. If there is any violation of the abovesaid conditions by the petitioner, then the jurisdictional court concerned stand hereby empowered, to consider the plea for cancellation of bail at the appropriate time. With these observations and directions, the above Bail Application stands allowed.

[case 124]
Pocso Act vs In Re: Narayan Halder on 27 March, 2023. In Re: An application for bail under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure filed on 13. 02. 2023 in connection with Tehatta Police Station Case No. 451 of 2022 dated 04. 06. 2022 under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the POCSO Act. Report is placed on record. From the report it appears a panel of three special Public Prosecutors have been notified for the Special Court under POCSO Act at Tehatta sub-division. In view of the aforesaid development, we expect that the trial will proceed with utmost expedition. We have considered the materials on record. There are materials implicating the petitioner in the offence of penetrative sexual assault. Under such circumstances, we are not inclined to grant bail to the petitioner at this stage. The application for bail is thus rejected. Trial court is directed to consider the issue of framing of charge at the earliest and in the event charge is framed, to take the proceeding to its logical conclusion keeping in mind the mandate under Section 35(2) of the POCSO Act. In a number of cases it has come to our notice that adequate number of special Public Prosecutors have not been appointed to the POCSO courts. Section 32 of the POCSO Act requires appointment of special Public Prosecutors who have adequate experience and sensitivity to handle cases of gender violence against minors in POCSO courts. Appointment of competent and efficient Public Prosecutors is a sine qua non for protection of victim interest and effective administration of justice in POCSO cases. In Alarming Rise in the Number of Reported Child Rape Incidents, In re1 the Apex Court held as follows: "8. There is a salutary reason for appointing Public Prosecutors exclusively for POCSO cases. Public Prosecutors must be trained to deal with child victims and child witnesses. They need to understand the psychology of children. They need to empathise with children. They need to know how to bring out the truth from children who are victims of sexual abuse and have to undergo the trauma again while recounting the traumatic experience. 9. The job assigned to the Public Prosecutor for POCSO cases is a very onerous one which must be carried out with great care and sensitivity. Therefore, not only is there a need to have exclusive Public Prosecutors but there is also a need to develop a training programme where these Special Public Prosecutors should be trained to deal with issues which will arise in their courts. These issues may not be confined to legal issues which otherwise Public Prosecutors may be trained to deal with. The issues may be psychological, health and other related issues. 10. Keeping in view these factors, we direct all the States who are present before us to take steps to appoint exclusive Public Prosecutors in all the courts which have been set up exclusively for POCSO cases. It may be relevant to note the expression 'Special Public Prosecutor' for every 'special court' does not bar the Government from notifying more than one special Public Prosecutor for a court in view of heavy pendency of cases in the file of each court. Reference in this regard may be made to Section 13(2) of General Clauses Act which reads as follows: "13. Gender and number. - *** *** *** (1) *** *** *** (2) words in the singular shall include the plural, and vice versa. " Paucity of adequate number of trained Special Prosecutors in POCSO courts requires to be immediately addressed. Legal Remembrancer is directed to submit report with regard to the following: (1) Number of Special Public Prosecutors appointed in each of the POCSO courts in the State of West Bengal; (2) Pendency of cases in each of the courts; (3) Breakup of cases in every court: (i) Where case is pending investigation; (ii) Where charge sheet has been filed; (iii) Where charges have been framed and/or trial has commenced. Let the matter appear on 31. 03. 2023. Report be filed on the adjourned day.

[case 125]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Neutral Citation No. - 2025: AHC: 546. Court No. - 65. Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 32091 of 2024. Applicant: - Deepak. Opposite Party: - State of U. P. Counsel for Applicant: - Shiv Prakash Gupta. Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. , Sandeep Kumar Rai. Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J. 1. Heard Sri Shiv Prakash Gupta, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Sudhir Kumar, holding brief of Sri Sandeep Kumar Rai, learned counsel for the informant as well as Sri Jai Kishan Chaurasiya, learned State Law Officer and perused the material placed on record. 2. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 134 of 2024, under Sections 498A, 304B I. P. C. and Section 3/4 of D. P. Act, Police Station Bhawanpur, District Meerut, during the pendency of trial. 3. As per prosecution story, the deceased person is stated to have expired within the precincts of the house of the applicant within a period of 14 months of her marriage. The applicant is stated to have subjected her to cruelty for the demand of motorcycle as a dowry. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant has argued that the applicant is absolutely innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case. He has nothing to do with the said offence. It is an admitted fact that both the applicant and the deceased person had re-married with each other. Learned counsel has further stated that the cause of death was found to be Asphyxia as a result of ante mortem hanging. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant has next stated that the real cause of suicide committed by the deceased person is that the applicant had a daughter from his earlier marriage and she did not want to take care of the said child. 6. Several other submissions have been made on behalf of the applicant to demonstrate the falsity of the allegations made against him. The circumstances which, as per counsel, led to the false implication of the applicant have also been touched upon at length. 7. There is no criminal history of the applicant. The applicant is languishing in jail since 30. 05. 2024 and he is ready to cooperate with the trial. In case, the applicant is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail. 8. Learned State Law Officer has vehemently opposed the bail application. 9. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, submissions made by learned counsel for the parties, the evidence on record, and taking into consideration the settled law of the Supreme Court passed in Satender Kumar Antil vs. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. , 2022 INSC 690 and Manish Sisodia vs. Directorate of Enforcement, 2024 INSC 595 and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the Court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed. 10. Let the applicant-Deepak, who is involved in aforementioned case crime be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to the following conditions. Further, before issuing the release order, the sureties be verified. (i) The applicant shall not tamper with evidence. (ii) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the Trial Court on dates fixed for (1) opening of the case, (2) framing of charge and (3) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. If in the opinion of the Trial Court absence of the applicant is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the Trial Court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against him in accordance with law. 11. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. 12. It is made clear that observations made in granting bail to the applicant shall not in any way affect the learned trial Judge in forming his independent opinion based on the testimony of the witnesses. Order Date: - 2. 1. 2025. Sumit S. (Justice Krishan Pahal)

[case 126]
Kerala High Court Liju vs State Of Kerala on 3 April, 2019 Bail Appl. .No. 124 of 2019 CRIME NO. 1641/2018 OF Enathu Police Station, Pathanamthitta PETITIONER/S: LIJU, AGED 21 YEARS S/O RAJU, THENGAMOM MURI, THENGAMAM, ADOOR, PATHANAMTHITTA-691523. BY ADV. SRI. K. SHAJ RESPONDENT/S: 1 STATE OF KERALA, REPRESENTED BY THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM-682031. 2 SUB INSPECTOR OF POLICE, ENATHU POLICE STATION, PATHANAMTHITTA DISTRICT, KERALA-691523. OTHER PRESENT: SRI. C. N. PRABHAKARAN-SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 03. 04. 2019, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: Bail Appl. .No. 124 of 2019 ORDER Apprehending his arrest, petitioner seeks anticipatory bail under Sec. 438 of Cr. P. C. He is alleged to have committed offences punishable under Sec. 354 of IPC, Sec. 8 of the PoCSO Act and Sec. 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act ( JJ Act for short). The police of Enathu police station in Pathanamthitta district has registered a case as crime no. 1641/2018 against the petitioner. Prosecution case goes as follows: It all happened at around 1 p. m on 21. 12. 2018. The victim girl aged 16 years was returning from her school along with her friends. When they reached Karimpara junction, the petitioner who came on a scooter abused the girl. He caught her hand. When she objected, he slapped on her face twice. Heard Sri. K. Shaj, the learned counsel for the petitioner and Sri. C. N. Prabhakaran, the learned senior public prosecutor. It seems that Sec. 75 of the JJ Act is out of question. Sec. 75 provides punishment for cruelty to child. In order to attract Sec. 75, the offender must be a person who is in actual charge of or control over the victim child. The prosecution has no such case. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that catching the hand or slapping on the face do not attract the penal provisions in Sec. 354 of IPC. It is also alleged that Sec. 8 of the PoCSO Act is not attracted inasmuch as the acts alleged against the petitioner do not fall within the ambit of the definition of sexual assault contained in Sec. 7 of the PoCSO Act. It is also the submission of the learned counsel that there is no allegation against the petitioner that he touched any parts of the body of the girl specifically referred to in Sec. 7. It is also his submission that catching the hand and slapping on the face cannot be termed as an act with sexual intent. It is too premature to have a positive or negative finding on the arguments of the learned counsel. But his arguments cannot be totally ignored or brushed aside. I do not consider the present case to be one where custodial interrogation of the petitioner is an absolute must for an effective investigation of the case. Considering all these matters, I am inclined to grant him bail. The application is allowed. If arrested in connection with crime no. 1641/2018 of Enathu police station, the petitioner shall be released on bail, after interrogation, on his executing a bond for Rs 75, 000/- (seventy five thousand only) with two solvent sureties each for the like sum to the satisfaction of the investigating officer. The petitioner shall co-operate with the investigation. He shall make himself available for interrogation if so required by the investigating officer. He shall report to the investigating officer between 10 am and 11 am on every Saturday for a period of three months or till the filing of the final report, whichever is earlier. The petitioner shall not intimidate or try to influence witnesses. He shall not destroy or tamper with evidence. The court having jurisdiction is hereby empowered to cancel the bail in accordance with law if any of the conditions mentioned above is violated. If the petitioner surrenders before the court concerned, this order will cease to have effect and the said court will pass appropriate orders as if this order has not been passed. A. M. BABU 03/04/19 JUDGE

[case 127]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Neutral Citation No. - 2025: AHC: 546. Court No. - 65. Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 32091 of 2024. Applicant: - Deepak. Opposite Party: - State of U. P. Counsel for Applicant: - Shiv Prakash Gupta. Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. , Sandeep Kumar Rai. Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J. 1. Heard Sri Shiv Prakash Gupta, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Sudhir Kumar, holding brief of Sri Sandeep Kumar Rai, learned counsel for the informant as well as Sri Jai Kishan Chaurasiya, learned State Law Officer and perused the material placed on record. 2. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 134 of 2024, under Sections 498A, 304B I. P. C. and Section 3/4 of D. P. Act, Police Station Bhawanpur, District Meerut, during the pendency of trial. 3. As per prosecution story, the deceased person is stated to have expired within the precincts of the house of the applicant within a period of 14 months of her marriage. The applicant is stated to have subjected her to cruelty for demand of motorcycle as a dowry. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant has argued that the applicant is absolutely innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case. He has nothing to do with the said offence. It is an admitted fact that both the applicant and the deceased person had re-married with each other. Learned counsel has further stated that the cause of death was found to be Asphyxia as a result of ante mortem hanging. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant has next stated that the real cause of suicide committed by the deceased person is that the applicant had a daughter from his earlier marriage and she did not want to take care of the said child. 6. Several other submissions have been made on behalf of the applicant to demonstrate the falsity of the allegations made against him. The circumstances which, as per counsel, led to the false implication of the applicant have also been touched upon at length. 7. There is no criminal history of the applicant. The applicant is languishing in jail since 30. 05. 2024 and he is ready to cooperate with the trial. In case, the applicant is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail. 8. Learned State Law Officer has vehemently opposed the bail application. 9. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, submissions made by learned counsel for the parties, the evidence on record, and taking into consideration the settled law of the Supreme Court passed in Satender Kumar Antil vs. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. , 2022 INSC 690 and Manish Sisodia vs. Directorate of Enforcement, 2024 INSC 595 and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the Court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed. 10. Let the applicant-Deepak, who is involved in aforementioned case crime be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to the following conditions. Further, before issuing the release order, the sureties be verified. (i) The applicant shall not tamper with evidence. (ii) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the Trial Court on dates fixed for (1) opening of the case, (2) framing of charge and (3) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. If in the opinion of the Trial Court absence of the applicant is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the Trial Court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against him in accordance with law. 11. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. 12. It is made clear that observations made in granting bail to the applicant shall not in any way affect the learned trial Judge in forming his independent opinion based on the testimony of the witnesses. Order Date: - 2. 1. 2025. Sumit S. (Justice Krishan Pahal)

[case 128]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Neutral Citation No. - 2025: AHC: 546. Court No. - 65. Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 32091 of 2024. Applicant: - Deepak. Opposite Party: - State of U. P. Counsel for Applicant: - Shiv Prakash Gupta. Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. , Sandeep Kumar Rai. Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J. 1. Heard Sri Shiv Prakash Gupta, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Sudhir Kumar, holding brief of Sri Sandeep Kumar Rai, learned counsel for the informant as well as Sri Jai Kishan Chaurasiya, learned State Law Officer and perused the material placed on record. 2. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 134 of 2024, under Sections 498A, 304B I. P. C. and Section 3/4 of D. P. Act, Police Station Bhawanpur, District Meerut, during the pendency of trial. 3. As per prosecution story, the deceased person is stated to have expired within the precincts of the house of the applicant within a period of 14 months of her marriage. The applicant is stated to have subjected her to cruelty for demand of motorcycle as a dowry. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant has argued that the applicant is absolutely innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case. He has nothing to do with the said offence. It is an admitted fact that both the applicant and the deceased person had re-married with each other. Learned counsel has further stated that the cause of death was found to be Asphyxia as a result of ante mortem hanging. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant has next stated that the real cause of suicide committed by the deceased person is that the applicant had a daughter from his earlier marriage and she did not want to take care of the said child. 6. Several other submissions have been made on behalf of the applicant to demonstrate the falsity of the allegations made against him. The circumstances which, as per counsel, led to the false implication of the applicant have also been touched upon at length. 7. There is no criminal history of the applicant. The applicant is languishing in jail since 30. 05. 2024 and he is ready to cooperate with trial. In case, the applicant is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail. 8. Learned State Law Officer has vehemently opposed the bail application. 9. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, submissions made by learned counsel for the parties, the evidence on record, and taking into consideration the settled law of the Supreme Court passed in Satender Kumar Antil vs. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. , 2022 INSC 690 and Manish Sisodia vs. Directorate of Enforcement, 2024 INSC 595 and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the Court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed. 10. Let the applicant-Deepak, who is involved in aforementioned case crime be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following conditions. Further, before issuing the release order, the sureties be verified. (i) The applicant shall not tamper with evidence. (ii) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the Trial Court on dates fixed for (1) opening of the case, (2) framing of charge and (3) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. If in the opinion of the Trial Court absence of the applicant is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the Trial Court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against him in accordance with law. 11. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. 12. It is made clear that observations made in granting bail to the applicant shall not in any way affect the learned trial Judge in forming his independent opinion based on the testimony of the witnesses. Order Date: - 2. 1. 2025. Sumit S. (Justice Krishan Pahal)

[case 129]
ERNAKULAM IN S. C NO. 698/2019 OF ADDITIONAL DISTRICT & SESSIONS
(POCSO)COURT, ERNAKULAM
PETITIONER/ACCUSED:
BY ADV. SRI. T. M. SUDHEER
RESPONDENTS/STATE & COMPLAINANT:
STATE OF KERALA
REPRESENTED BY THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR,
HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM-682 031.
THIS CRIMINAL MISC. CASE HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 29. 12. 2020, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: Crl. MC. No. 5644 OF 2020(E)
Dated this the 29th day of December 2020
The petitioner is the accused in SC. No. 698/2019 before the Additional District and Sessions (POCSO) Court, Ernakulam. The accused is alleged to have committed offences under Section 376(2) of Indian Penal Code read with Section 6 and 5J(ii) of the POCSO Act, 2012. It is submitted by the learned counsel for the petitioner that petitioner and the 2nd respondent - the victim, were in love with each other and in their relationship, a child was even born. Photograph of the child along with the petitioner and the 2nd respondent is produced as Ann: A6. It is also pleaded that the crime No. 342/2019 was registered on the basis of some misunderstanding and that, subsequent to the birth of the child, petitioner as well as the 2nd respondent have married each other. True copy of the marriage certificate issued by the marriage officer, Njarackal is produced as Ann: A4 and the birth certificate of the child is produced as Ann: A5. The prosecution alleges that on 26. 1. 2019, at 11. 00 a. m, the petitioner committed rape on the victim and the victim became pregnant. The crime was registered on the basis of a complaint by the victim. According to the petitioner, the victim and the petitioner were involved in a romantic relationship and have even married. The complaint was filed on a total misunderstanding and no proper investigation was also carried out. It is contended that continuance of the proceedings is a sheer abuse of the process of Court and no purpose will be served other than waste of judicial time. Petitioner is only aged 25 years and taking into consideration the gravity of the offences alleged as well as the subsequent developments, especially the marriage between the petitioner and the 2nd respondent and the settlement arrived at there is no purpose in continuing the case. The settlement is reflected through Ann: A3 affidavit, wherein the victim as well as her parents have sworn to an affidavit, stating that they have no complaints or allegations against the petitioner and they have come into to good terms with each other and also that no purpose would be served in continuing the criminal proceedings. The learned Public Prosecutor on instructions, submits that the Police have taken the statement of the victim and have verified the veracity of the affidavit produced before this Court as Ann: A3. According to the learned prosecutor, the affidavit is genuine and can be acted upon. In view of the above circumstances, continuance of the proceedings in SC No. 698/2019 before the Sessions Court, Ernakulam will only be an abuse of the process of Court. Since the matter has been settled by the parties and the petitioner has admittedly married the alleged victim, no evidence will be forthcoming to support the prosecution case. Continuance of the prosecution is therefore an abuse of process of Court and serves no purpose. In the result, the Crl. MC is allowed. Proceedings in SC. No. 698/2019 on the files of the Additional District and Sessions (POCSO) Court, Ernakulam initiated as per Annexure A2 is quashed.
BECHU KURIAN THOMAS

[case 130]
2. Learned A. G. A. has informed that notice to the informant has been served on 22. 1. 2025.
3. Heard Sri Anand Pati Tiwari, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri V. K. S. Parmar, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material placed on record.
4. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 359 of 2023, under Sections 363, 366, 376 I. P. C. and 3/4 POCSO Act, Police Station- Bidhuna, District- Auraiya, during the pendency of trial.
5. Learned counsel for the applicant has argued that the applicant is absolutely innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case. The victim is a consenting party as is but evident from her statement recorded U/s 164 Cr. P. C. The victim by her looks seems to be major, although she is stated to be 18 years old as per her own statement. She has given birth to a child.
6. Several other submissions have been made on behalf of the applicant to demonstrate the falsity of the allegations made against him. The circumstances which, as per counsel, led to the false implication of the applicant have also been touched upon at length. There is no criminal antecedent of the applicant. The applicant is languishing in jail since 25. 10. 2024 and he is ready to cooperate with trial. In case, the applicant is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail.
7. Learned A. G. A. has vehemently opposed the bail application.
8. In light of the judgement of the Supreme Court passed in Niranjan Singh and another vs Prabhakar Rajaram Kharote and others AIR 1980 SC 785, this Court has avoided detailed examination of the evidence and elaborate documentation of the merits of the case as no party should have the impression that his case has been prejudiced. A prima facie satisfaction of case is needed but it is not the same as an exhaustive exploration of the merits in the order itself.
9. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, submissions made by learned counsel for the parties, the evidence on record, and taking into consideration the settled law of the Supreme Court passed in Satender Kumar Antil vs. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. , 2022 INSC 690 and Manish Sisodia vs. Directorate of Enforcement, 2024 INSC 595 and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the Court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed.
10. Let the applicant- Pradum, who is involved in aforementioned case crime be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to following conditions. Further, before issuing the release order, the sureties be verified.
(i) The applicant shall not tamper with evidence.
(ii) The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the Trial Court on dates fixed for (1) opening of the case, (2) framing of charge and (3) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. /351 B. N. S. S. If in the opinion of the Trial Court absence of the applicant is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the Trial Court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed against him in accordance with law.
11. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail.
12. It is made clear that observations made in granting bail to the applicant shall not in any way affect the learned trial Judge in forming his independent opinion based on the testimony of the witnesses.
Order Date: - 14. 2. 2025
(Justice Krishan Pahal)

[case 131]
This is an application for bail moved on behalf of the accused-applicant, Sunil Nisad, who is involved in Case Crime No. 145 of 2020, under Section 376A-B IPC and Section 5/6 of POCSO Act, police station Kotwali, district Hamirpur. Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned Additional Government Advocate and perused the record of the case. In short compass the facts of the case as unfolded by the prosecution is that Smt. Kusuma, informant, who is mother of the victim has lodged the first information report on 11. 7. 2020 in respect of the incident, which took place on 5. 7. 2020 at 12. 30 in the night against the applicant, Sunil Nishad (driver of the truck) for the offence under Sections 354 IPC and Section 8 POCSO Act at police station Kotwali Nagar, district Hameerpur to the effect that when the daughter of the informant was sleeping outside her house along with her siblings, the applicant came there and started doing indecent act and lied next to her and when the victim objected and called her father, the applicant ran away from the spot. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that applicant is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case with some ulterior motive. Learned counsel for the applicant submitted that there is inconsistency in the prosecution version as well as in the statements of the victim recorded under Sections 161 and 164 Cr. P. C. The applicant is languishing in jail since 13. 11. 2020 and in case he is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail and cooperate with the trial. Per contra, learned Additional Government Advocate has opposed the prayer for bail and submitted that the victim aged about ten years has fully supported the prosecution version in her statements recorded under Sections 161 and 164 Cr. P. C. and clearly stated that the applicant inserted his fingers in the private part of the victim and has done indecent act with her. Learned A. G. A. also stated that the mother of the victim would not concoct a false story for implicating any one in such matter as the dignity and future of an innocent girl is also at stake. He also submitted that considering the gravity of the offence, no leniency should be given to the applicant as the crime is not only against the small girl/victim, it is against the society as a whole. In this case a small innocent girl has been raped who does not understand its meaning. Little girls are worshiped in our country, but the cases of pedophilia are increasing. Rape is a heinous crime. The victim suffers from psychological effects of embarrassment, disgust, depression, guilt and even suicidal tendencies. Many cases go unreported. In almost rape cases, the victim was unwilling to report the name of the abuser. The families of the victim remain silent about the sexual offences in order to protect the family image. The victim/female small child experience sexual abuse once tend to be more vulnerable to abuse in adult life. Healing is slow and systematic. In such a situation, if the right decision is not taken from the Court at the right time, then the trust of a victim/common man will not be left in the judicial system. This is the time to strictly stop this kind of crime. If the applicant commits rape on a little girl under twelve years of age, according the provisions of Section 376A-B of Indian Penal Code, he shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than twenty years, but which may extend to imprisonment for life, which means that the accused shall be in prison for the remainder of his natural life, and with fine or with death. Having considered the facts and circumstances of the case, nature of offence, the gravity involved therein and the manner in which the crime has been committed, no case for bail is made out. The application for bail is hereby rejected.

[case 132]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD R/CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION NO. 20763 of 2021 ========================================================== BHUPENDRA @ BHUPEN NANDU @ JOGADABHAI BHURIYA Versus STATE OF GUJARAT ========================================================== Appearance: ARNIKA L OJHA(8657) for the Applicant(s) No. 1 for the Respondent(s) No. 2 MR MANAN MAHETA, APP for the Respondent(s) No. 1 ========================================================== CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ILESH J. VORA Date: 29/11/2021 ORAL ORDER 1. By way of this application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as "the Code"), the applicant has prayed for quashing and setting aside F. I. R. bearing C. R. No. I-73 of 2017 registered with Chhani Police Station, Dist. - Vadodara for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366 and 376 of IPC and Sections 4, 6 and 8 of POCSO Act and to quash all other consequential proceedings arising out of the aforesaid FIR qua the applicant. 2. Mr. Rajesh G. Barot, learned advocate states that he has instructions to appear for the respondent no. 2-original complainant and seeks permission to file Vakalatnama with the Registry. Permission is granted. Registry is directed to accept the same. 3. Learned advocate for the applicant submits that the prosecutrix got married with the applicant on 03. 04. 2018 as per Hindu rites and rituals and the same was registered on 03. 09. 2019 at Registrar of Marriage at Ranu, Taluka: Padra, District: Vadodara and at present she is residing happily with the applicant and out of their wedlock, a child is born on 02. 08. 2020. 4. Heard Ms. Arnika Ojha, learned advocate for the applicant and Mr. Rajesh G. Barot, learned advocate for the respondent no. 2 - complainant. 5. Both the learned advocates would submit that during the pendency of present petition, the matter is amicably settled amongst the parties and therefore, any further continuation of the proceedings pursuant to the impugned FIR would create hardship to the parties and further continuation of the proceedings would amount to abuse of process of law. 6. Learned APP has strongly opposed this application. 7. The complainant - respondent No. 2 - Navalsinh Motibhai Minama as well as the prosecutrix have filed affidavits stating inter-alia the fact that the matter is amicably settled with the applicant which are ordered to be taken on record and therefore, in the interest of justice, FIR may be quashed and set aside. 8. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and considering the facts of settlement and law laid down by the Apex Court [Gian Singh Vs. State of Punjab & Anr. , reported in (2012) 10 SCC 303, Madan Mohan Abbot Vs. State of Punjab, reported in (2008) 4 SCC 582, Nikhil Merchant Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation & Anr. , reported in 2009 (1) GLH 31, Manoj Sharma Vs. State & Ors. , reported in 2009 (1) GLH 190 and Narinder Singh & Ors. Vs. State of Punjab & Anr. reported in 2014 (2) Crime 67 (SC), ] this Court is of the considered view that further continuation of the criminal proceedings in relation to the impugned FIR would nothing but unnecessary harassment to the parties and trial thereon would be futile and further continuation of the proceedings would amount to abuse of process of law. Thus, to secure the ends of justice, the impugned FIR is required to be quashed and set aside in exercise of powers conferred under Section 482 of the Code. 9. Resultantly, this application is allowed and the impugned FIR bearing C. R. No. I-73 of 2017 registered with Chhani Police Station, Dist. - Vadodara filed against present applicant is hereby quashed and set aside and all other proceedings arising out of the aforesaid FIR are also quashed and set aside. Direct service is permitted.

[case 133]
The petitioner apprehends arrest in Crime No. 904/2017 of Pavaratty Police Station, Thrissur District. This is a typical case where the warring parties to a matrimonial dispute, without thinking about the consequences, make false and unfounded allegations resulting in irreparable damage to the reputation even of their child. The petitioner is working as a Village Officer in Elavally Village Office. The petitioner and his wife are married for the last 16 years and two girl children were born out of their wedlock. The father in law of the petitioner, after his retirement from service, unnecessarily started intruding into the affairs of the petitioner and his family leading to difference of opinion between the petitioner and his father-in-law. Unfortunately, despite spending 16 years with his wife together, the wife of the petitioner supported her father and stood against the petitioner leading to strain their matrimonial relationship. The members of the petitioner's family as well as the members of the wife of the petitioner's family met in the house of the petitioner on 18. 07. 2018 to sort out the differences between the petitioner, his wife and father-in-law. Unfortunately they could not able to succeed in solving their problems. Thereafter, on 27. 07. 2017, the wife of the petitioner has filed a complaint before the Pavaratty Police alleging that the petitioner had sexually abused their 4 year old daughter. Based on the above complaint, the police registered the above crime against the petitioner alleging offences punishable under Sections 5(m), 5(n), 6, 7, 8 r/w. 9(1) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The petitioner is being victimised by his wife to settle matter for which the daughter of the petitioner is unfortunately dragged into this by the wife of the petitioner. She did not realise the consequences of the petitioner being put behind bars on account of this false allegation. The learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the allegation levelled against him are false and no such incident was happened. It was also argued that there was an altercation between the petitioner and his wife and they were living separately due to difference of opinion and there was a settlement talk among the petitioner, his wife and father-in-law. But, it became futile. Therefore, in order to pressurize the petitioner to settle the matter, the 2nd female child was brought into this by stating that she was sexually assaulted by the petitioner. In the meanwhile, the matter was mediated by the Kerala High Court Mediation Centre and it was settled. It was also decided to quash the entire proceedings which was taken in this crime. In fact, even though the crime was registered on account of the strained relationship between the petitioner and the 2nd respondent, now the entire matter has been settled. Considering all these facts, I find that the crime was registered on account of the strained relationship between the petitioner and the 2nd respondent. Therefore, I find that it is unjust to keep the petitioner, who is none other the father of the victim behind the bars. Moreover, the matrimonial dispute between the petitioner and the 2nd respondent have also been settled. Under these circumstances, I am inclined to grant anticipatory bail to the petitioner on the following conditions: The petitioner shall surrender before the Special Court for POCSO cases, Thrissur on or before 07. 12. 2018 between 10. 00. a. m. and 11. 00. a. m. and after interrogation, he shall be released on bail on executing a bond for Rs. 50, 000/- (Rupees Fifty thousand only) with two solvent sureties each for the like sum to the satisfaction of the jurisdictional Judge. The petitioner shall appear before the Investigating Officer as and when requested.

[case 134]
Bilal Ansari vs State (Through Sho Ps Jyoti Nagar) on 14 January, 2025. The instant application under Section 482 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (hereafter 'BNSS') has been filed on behalf of the applicant seeking grant of anticipatory bail in case arising out of FIR bearing No. 218/2024 registered at Police Station Jyoti Nagar, Delhi for offence punishable under Sections 498A/406/34 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereafter 'IPC') and Section 3/4 of Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. Briefly stated, the facts of the present case are that the marriage between the complainant and the accused was solemnized on 25. 02. 2022, as per Muslim customs, at the Mohammadi Masjid Kardampuri, Delhi, with the dower fixed at Rs. 20, 000. The wedding reception was held on 05. 03. 2022 at Green Garden Farm House, Village Sabhapur, following which the complainant had retired to her in-laws' residence at New Seelampur, Delhi. At the time of the complainant's departure, her parents and relatives had given dowry items - including a Creta car, Bullet motorcycle, gold and silver jewellery, furniture, appliances, utensils, and a sum of 5, 25, 000 in cash - as per the demands made by her in-laws. Additionally, the complainant's family had performed all pre-marital ceremonies, such as engagement, Roka, Haldi, and the Nikah, as per the instructions of the in-laws, incurring significant expenses. After the marriage, the complainant had noticed a significant change in the behaviour of her in-laws. They had allegedly started taunting her over various issues, speaking harshly, and verbally abusing her family. On 25. 03. 2022, when the complainant had questioned her husband about this behaviour, he had abused her and, along with his parents and siblings, accused her father of providing insufficient dowry. They had demanded a Fortuner car instead of the Creta and had insulted her for being outspoken. This had escalated to physical violence, with her husband slapping her, followed by beatings from the other in-laws. Over the subsequent days, her in-laws' harassment intensified. Despite fulfilling her household responsibilities, the complainant had been subjected to nightly demands to cook at odd hours. On 25. 04. 2022, her in-laws had demanded an additional 25, 00, 000 from her father, threatening to divorce her if she failed to comply. When the complainant's parents had arranged 5, 00, 000 and handed it over to her father-in-law, the in-laws had assured them they would not harass her further. However, this promise had only lasted a few days before the abuse resumed. On the night of 20. 06. 2022, the in-laws had demanded the remaining 20, 00, 000 and, upon refusal, had physically assaulted the complainant. Her father-in-law had pushed her down the stairs, causing her significant injuries. Despite her injuries, her in-laws had falsely claimed to neighbors that the fall had been caused by a rat. By 01. 08. 2022, the complainant was allegedly moved out of her in-laws' house and left at her parents' residence. Her in-laws had retained all her belongings, including gold and silver jewelry, clothing, and essential documents such as her PAN card, Aadhaar card, and educational certificates. Despite multiple requests, these items had not been returned. While living with her parents, the complainant had given birth to a son on 22. 02. 2023 through a caesarean operation at K. G. Medical Center, Delhi. All the expenses had been borne by her parents. Despite being informed about the birth, her husband and in-laws had neither visited nor inquired about her or the child's well-being. Since 01. 08. 2022, the complainant had been living as a financial burden on her parents, with no support from her husband or in-laws. On the basis of these allegations, the present FIR was registered.

[case 135]
K. Govindan vs State Of Kerala on 24 August, 2020 The sole accused in S. C. No. 840 of 2014 on the files of the First Additional Sessions Court, Kasaragod has come up in this appeal challenging his conviction and sentence in the said case. The accusation in the case is that from the year 2012, the accused has committed rape on the victim girl aged 12 years in a shed near her house at Adkathbayal Beach, and thereby committed the offences punishable under Sections 376(2)(f), 376(2)(i) and 376(2)(n) of the Indian Penal Code (the IPC) and Section 3 read with Section 4 and Section 7 read with Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (the POCSO Act). On the accused pleading not guilty of the charges, the prosecution examined 13 witnesses on its side as PWs. 1 to 13 and proved through them, nine documents as Exts. P1 to P9. Among the witnesses examined, PW1 is the Chairperson of the Kasaragod Child Welfare Committee, PW2 is the victim girl, PW3 is the elder sister of the mother of the victim girl, PW5 is the doctor who examined the victim girl on 19. 05. 2014, PW8 is the owner of the shed where the accused is stated to have committed sexual assault on the victim girl and PW12 is the investing officer in the case. Among the documents proved, Ext. P1 is the statement given by the victim girl to the Child Welfare Committee, which is treated as the First Information Statement in the case, Ext. P2 is the statement given by the victim girl under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (the Code) and Ext. P4 is the report of the medical examination of the victim girl conducted by PW5. On an appraisal of the materials on record, the court below found that the accused is guilty of the offences punishable under Section 376(1) of the IPC, as it stood prior to Act 13 of 2013 and Section 3 read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act, convicted him for the said offences and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to pay a fine of Rs. 50, 000/- and in default of payment of fine, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year for the offence punishable under Section 376(1) of the IPC as it stood prior to the Act 13 of 2013. Separate sentence was not imposed on the accused for the offence punishable under the POCSO Act, in the light of Section 42 of the POCSO Act. As noted, the accused is aggrieved by his conviction and sentence. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties on either side and having perused the materials on record, the point falls for consideration is as to whether the prosecution has established the guilt of the accused under Section 376(1) of the IPC as it stood prior to Act 13 of 2013 and Section 3 read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act. It is seen that the accused was charged for the offences punishable under Sections 376(2)(f), 376(2)(i) and 376(2)(n) of the IPC, as amended in terms of Act 13 of 2013. The court below noticed that Act 13 of 2013 came into force only with effect from 03. 02. 2013, and in so far as the prosecution does not have a case as to the specific dates on which the accused has allegedly committed sexual assaults on the victim girl, he cannot be charged for the said offences and it is on that premise that the court below found the accused guilty of the offence punishable under Section 376(1) of the IPC, as it stood prior to Act 13 of 2013. At the same time, the materials on record disclose that it is a case where the victim girl had been sexually assaulted by the accused. The court, however, is unable to find the extent of assault to which the victim girl was subjected to by the accused. I take this view for two reasons. There is absolutely no reason for the victim girl aged about 15 years to raise a false allegation against the accused in court.

[case 136]
Muthu Kumar vs The State on 31 January, 2025. This Criminal Appeal arises out of the judgment of conviction and sentence rendered by the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under the POSCO Act, Chennai, in Spl. S. C. No. 195 of 2022, dated 31. 10. 2023. The appellant was tried along with one Bhuvaneswari (A2), the mother of the victim girl. The learned trial Judge found A2 guilty for the offence under Section 6 read with Section 17 @ 21(1) of the POCSO Act and convicted and sentenced her to undergo imprisonment for four months, and the period of detention already undergone has been set off under Section 428 Cr. P. C. The victim, P. W. 2, who was born on 15. 09. 2004, was a minor at the time of the incident. She had been living with her mother (A2) since her father separated from the family, taking the victim's brother with him. The appellant, an auto driver, came into contact with the victim's family when he began providing transportation. Later, he informed the victim's mother that he had divorced his wife, and the appellant and A2 began living together with the victim girl. Taking advantage of the mother's absence, the appellant forcibly committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl. This abuse continued, and the victim later became pregnant. She gave birth to a male child at home, and when complications arose with the umbilical cord, the victim sought medical treatment. This led to the involvement of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and the Police, bringing the crime to light. Following medical treatment, the Primary Health Centre staff, Nammalwarpet reported the case to the CWC after discovering the victim's pregnancy and minor status. The CWC informed the Police, and thereafter, the case was registered in Crime No. 11 of 2022 against the accused for the offences under Sections 5(j)(ii), 6 and 17 of the POCSO Act. During the investigation, the victim's statement was recorded. Subsequently, the victim was produced before a doctor and a Magistrate, where her statement under Section 164 of the Cr. P. C. was recorded. After recording statements from the witnesses and collecting the materials, the accused were arrested. A charge sheet was filed before the trial Court, listing 14 witnesses. Upon completion of the trial, the trial Court convicted the appellant (A1) under Section 6 of the POCSO Act. The second accused (A2) was convicted under Section 6 read with Section 17 @ 21 (1) of the POCSO Act. The learned counsel for the appellant contends that the trial Court's finding is contrary to both the law and the weight of the evidence. The learned counsel submits that the trial Court failed to properly consider the statement made by the victim, P. W. 2, who categorically stated that she and the appellant had got married, and that a male child was born out of their relationship. According to P. W. 2, she and the appellant were living together as husband and wife. P. W. 2 further stated that their baby developed an infection in the umbilical cord, and the baby was taken to the Public Health Centre for treatment. From there, information was sent to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), which, according to the learned counsel, did not conduct a proper enquiry and rushed into action by lodging a complaint. The victim hails from a marginalized background and lives in poverty. It is the appellant's family that takes care of the victim, supports her, and provides aid in all aspects. In the result, the criminal appeal is allowed; the conviction and sentences imposed on the appellant/A1 by judgment dated 31. 10. 2023, in Spl. S. C. No. 195 of 2022, by the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under the POCSO Act, Chennai, is set aside and he is acquitted from all the charges.

[case 137]
Take notes as you read a judgment using our Virtual Legal Assistant and get email alerts whenever a new judgment matches your query (Query Alert Service). Try out our Premium Member Services -- Sign up today and get free trial for one month.
Madras High Court
Kumar @ Kumaresan vs State on 21 August, 2017
Author: P. N. Prakash
Bench: P. N. Prakash
Crl. A. No. 261 of 2018
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
RESERVED ON 15. 09. 2021
DELIVERED ON 08. 10. 2021
THE HONBLE MR. JUSTICE P. N. PRAKASH
THE HONBLE MS. JUSTICE R. N. MANJULA
Crl. A. No. 261 of 2018
Kumar @ Kumaresan
S/o Govindasamy  Appellant/Accused
Represented by the Inspector of Police
Erode North Police Station.
(Cr. No. 649 of 2016)  Respondent/Complainant
Criminal Appeal filed under Section 374(2) Cr. P. C. seeking to set aside the
judgment of conviction and sentence dated 21. 08. 2017 passed in Special Case
No. 14 of 2017 on the file of the Additional Sessions Judge, Magalir
Neethimanram (Fast Track Mahila Court) Erode.
For appellant: Mr. P. K. Ganesh
For respondent: Mr. M. Babu Muthu Meeran
Addl. Public Prosecutor
https: //www. mhc. tn. gov. in/judis/
. .. .. .
https: //www. mhc. tn. gov. in/judis/

[case 138]
In compliance with the order dated 08. 10. 2021, the minor girl Juhi @ Tanishka Rahul Wadhave is brought before us at about 2. 30 p. m. We have interacted with said Juhi @ Tanishka alone in our chamber. She has expressed her willingness to go alongwith mother and she is not at all willing to go alongwith her father. In the order dated 08. 10. 2021 we have thoroughly discussed as to how the petitioner-natural mother of minor daughter Juhi @ Tanishka had to run from pillar to post for getting interim custody of her minor daughter Juhi @ Tanishka in the backdrop of registration of crime against father of Juhi @ Tanishka. So far as the health issue of minor girl Juhi @ Tanishka is concerned, in terms of order dated 08. 10. 2021, she was referred to the hospital name and style as Varad Medical Foundation Institute of Child Health, Aurangabad. Dr. S. M. Khandelwal has examined the girl and certified that she is in normal state of health at present. The said doctor has also opined that the girl needs to continue her antiepileptic drugs as advice. A report to that effect is submitted by the Superintendent of Vidhyadeep Anathalay/ Balgruha, Chawni, Aurangabad alongwith medical fitness certificate issued by Dr. S. M. Khandelwal. Even the Chairman of Child Welfare Committee, Aurangabad has submitted certain papers. However, the same may not be relevant for the present discussion and for the cause referred in the writ petition. Learned counsel for the petitioner has brought to our notice that the proceedings in the form of D-004 of 2015 are still pending before the Family Court, Aurangabad wherein the petitioner has filed an application for modification in the order below Exh. 1 and 152 dated 12. 4. 2019 and the said application is still pending. The petitioner also intends to file another application pointing out registration of crime against the father of Juhi @ Tanishka requesting the learned Judge of the Family Court to modify the earlier order. In the instant matter, we are disappointed by the rude and unwarranted approach of the Child Welfare Committee, the Presiding Officer of the (POCSO) Court and also the learned Judge of the Family Court. Even though the father of minor child came to be arrested in connection with the crime, wherein the allegations have been made by his own minor daughter Juhi @ Tanishka pertaining to the sexual abuses at his hands, even then no one has cared to pass any order taking into consideration the welfare of the child. The said girl is only 10/11 years of age. We have interacted with her in our chamber. We do not think that on account of certain tutoring she has made the allegations. However, we are not intending to observe anything about it since the said crime is still under investigation and it is for the criminal court to record findings on merits at the conclusion of trial. In the circumstances, it would be just and appropriate if the interim custody of minor child Juhi @ Tanishka Rahul Wadhave is given to the petitioner forthwith. Since the petition No. D-004 of 2015 is still pending before the Family Court at Aurangabad, the parties are at liberty to make appropriate submissions and it is for the learned Judge of the Family Court to pass final order keeping in mind the registration of crime against the father of the child so also after giving an opportunity of being heard to both the parties. Till then, we direct that the interim custody of the child Juhi @ Tanishka Rahul Wadhave shall be given to the petitioner with immediate effect. We also record our opinion that the explanation tendered by the leaned Judge of the POCSO Court is not at all satisfactory. Writ petition is accordingly disposed of.

[case 139]
Through: Ms. Kamna Vohra, Additional Standing Counsel for the State With SI Ombir Singh, P. S. - Welcome.
AMIT. .. .. .. .. .. RESPONDENT
Through: None.
CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE G. S. SISTANI HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE SANGITA DHINGRA SEHGAL
SANGITA DHINGRA SEHGAL, J. (ORAL)
Crl. M. A. 1075/2016 (Delay in filing) 1. This is an application under Section 5 of Limitation Act read with Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure filed by the State seeking condonation of delay of 7 days in filing the present leave to appeal petition. 2. Heard. For the reasons stated in the application, delay in filing the present leave to appeal petition is condoned. 3. Application stands disposed of. Crl. LP No. 44/2016 4. The present leave to appeal has been filed by the State under Section 378(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure being aggrieved by the impugned judgment dated 01. 10. 2015 passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge-01, North-East, Karkardooma, Delhi thereby acquitting the respondent. 5. The brief facts of the case as noticed by the learned Trial Court are as under: "The victim in this case is a girl aged about 7 years and a student of class 2nd at the time of incident. She was residing with her parents, grandparents and brother. She had alleged that on 15. 02. 2011, when she was going upstairs to her room at the top floor after purchasing milk from a shop, one boy namely Amit who used to do DJ work with her father and also known to her previously, met and caught hold of her at the second floor and removed her Pajami. She further alleged that when she asked the accused to leave her, he did not do so and instead sat on her waist and inserted his finger into her urinary organ on which she started crying and he also wetted her Pajami. Meanwhile, on hearing the cries of the victim, her mother reached there and on seeing her, accused Amit ran away. On the asking of her mother, the victim told the incident to her and thereafter to her father. On the complaint of the victim, a case was registered for the offences punishable under Sections 376/511 Indian Penal Code vide FIR No. 57/2011, dated 16. 02. 2011. The accused was arrested on the same day. " 6. After investigation was over, charge-sheet against the accused was filed before the Court for the offence under Section 376 (2) (f) of the Indian Penal Code and charge was framed against the accused for the said offence. To substantiate its accusation, prosecution examined thirteen witnesses in all to prove its case. Statement of accused under Section 313 of Code of Criminal Procedure was recorded wherein he pleaded his innocence and claimed to be tried. 7. The learned Trial Court, upon analysis, examination and evaluation of the prosecution evidence and after considering the rival submissions recorded acquittal against the accused for the charged offence but found him guilty for the offence punishable under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code and convicted him accordingly. 8. Aggrieved by the impugned judgment, the State has filed the present leave petition contending that the view and the ultimate conclusion recorded by the learned Trial Court in acquitting the accused for the offence under Section 376 (2) (f) of the Indian Penal Code is manifestly perverse, unsustainable, tainted with non-application of mind to vital evidence, a result of wrong interpretation of evidence of minor victim girl and other substantial evidences, which has resulted into miscarriage of justice.

[case 140]
Karnataka High Court Raju S/O. Pavalu Lobo vs The State Of Karnataka on 7 February, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA, DHARWAD BENCH DATED THIS THE 7TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2025 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE HEMANT CHANDANGOUDAR CRIMINAL PETITION NO. 100580 OF 2025 (482(Cr. PC)/528(BNSS)) BETWEEN: 1. RAJU S/O. PAVALU LOBO AGE. 48 YEARS, OCC. LABOR, 2. REENA W/O. RAJU LOBO AGE. 40 YEARS, OCC. LABOR, BOTH R/O. KAKATI, TQ. CHIKODI, C/O. ASHA BHAVAN OLD AGE HOME, VICTOR JOHN ALWARIES, HOUSE NO. 38, DAMA DAY TVIM MA NORTH GOA, GOA-403502. .. .PETITIONERS (BY SRI. N. L. BATAKURKI, ADVOCATE) AND: THE STATE OF KARNATAKA BY PSI, MUDHOL PS, MUDHOL-587313, TQ. MUDHOL, DIST. BAGALKOT, REP. BY SPP, HIGH COURT BLDG, DHARWAD. THIS CRIMINAL PETITION IS FILED U/S 482 OF CR. P. C. (U/S. 528 OF BNSS, 2023) SEEKING TO ADMIT THE PETITION AND QUASH THE IMPUGNED ORDER DATED 25. 02. 2023 TAKING COGNIZANCE AND ISSUE OF PROCESS AND CHARGE SHEET FILED BY THE RESPONDENT HEREIN FOR THE OFFENCE P/U/SEC 80 JUVENILE JUSTICE (CARE AND PROTECTION OF CHILDREN) ACT AND SEC. 34 OF IPC ON THE FILE OF PRL. CIVIL JUDGE AND JMFC, MUDHOL IN C. C. NO. 52/2023 AGAINST THE ACCUSED NO. 2 AND 3/PETITIONERS HEREIN. THIS PETITION, COMING ON FOR ADMISSION, THIS DAY, ORDER WAS MADE THEREIN AS UNDER: CORAM: THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE HEMANT CHANDANGOUDAR THE PETITIONERS ARE FACING CHARGES UNDER SECTION 80 OF THE JUVENILE JUSTICE (CARE AND PROTECTION OF CHILDREN) ACT, 2015 AND SECTION 34 OF THE INDIAN PENAL CODE (IPC) AND HAVE APPROACHED THIS COURT SEEKING APPROPRIATE RELIEF. THE PROSECUTION ALLEGES THAT ACCUSED NO. 1 GAVE BIRTH TO A FEMALE CHILD ON 14. 08. 2021, AND THE CHILD WAS GIVEN IN ADOPTION TO THE PETITIONERS ON 15. 08. 2021 WITHOUT FOLLOWING THE LEGAL PROCEDURE PRESCRIBED UNDER THE JUVENILE JUSTICE (CARE AND PROTECTION OF CHILDREN) ACT, 2015. HEARD THE LEARNED COUNSEL FOR THE PETITIONERS, THE LEARNED HIGH COURT GOVERNMENT PLEADER FOR THE RESPONDENT-STATE, AND THE LEARNED COUNSEL APPEARING FOR RESPONDENT NO. 2. SECTION 80 OF THE JUVENILE JUSTICE (CARE AND PROTECTION OF CHILDREN) ACT, 2015 PRESCRIBES PUNITIVE MEASURES FOR ILLEGAL ADOPTION. IT STATES: "IF ANY PERSON OR ORGANIZATION OFFERS, GIVES, OR RECEIVES ANY ORPHAN, ABANDONED, OR SURRENDERED CHILD FOR THE PURPOSE OF ADOPTION WITHOUT FOLLOWING THE PROVISIONS OR PROCEDURES AS PROVIDED IN THIS ACT, SUCH PERSON OR ORGANIZATION SHALL BE PUNISHABLE WITH IMPRISONMENT OF EITHER DESCRIPTION FOR A TERM WHICH MAY EXTEND UP TO THREE YEARS, OR WITH A FINE OF ONE LAKH RUPEES, OR WITH BOTH. " A PLAIN READING OF SECTION 80 ESTABLISHES THAT FOR AN ACT TO CONSTITUTE AN OFFENSE UNDER THIS PROVISION, THE CHILD IN QUESTION MUST BE AN ORPHAN, ABANDONED, OR SURRENDERED CHILD, AS DEFINED UNDER SECTIONS 2(1), 2(42), AND 2(60) OF THE JUVENILE JUSTICE (CARE AND PROTECTION OF CHILDREN) ACT, 2015. IN THE PRESENT CASE, THE CHILD IN QUESTION WAS THE BIOLOGICAL CHILD OF ACCUSED NO. 1 AND WAS GIVEN IN ADOPTION TO ACCUSED NOS. 2 AND 3. SINCE THE CHILD DOES NOT FALL UNDER THE LEGAL DEFINITIONS OF ORPHAN, ABANDONED, OR SURRENDERED CHILD, THE ESSENTIAL INGREDIENT TO CONSTITUTE AN OFFENSE UNDER SECTION 80 IS CONSPICUOUSLY ABSENT. WHEN THE FUNDAMENTAL REQUIREMENT OF SECTION 80 IS NOT SATISFIED, THE CONTINUATION OF CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST THE PETITIONERS WOULD AMOUNT TO AN ABUSE OF THE PROCESS OF LAW. ACCORDINGLY, I PASS THE FOLLOWING: ORDER i) THE CRIMINAL PETITION IS ALLOWED ii) THE IMPUGNED PROCEEDINGS IN C. C. NO. 52/2023, PENDING ON THE FILE OF THE PRINCIPAL CIVIL JUDGE AND JMFC, MUDHOL, INSOFAR IT RELATES TO THE PETITIONERS- ACCUSED HEREIN IS HEREBY QUASHED.

[case 141]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD R/CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION NO. 959 of 2021 TARUNBHAI @ TULSIDAS DINUBHAI @ DINESHBHAI BARIA Versus STATE OF GUJARAT Appearance: MR BHAVIK R SAMANI(8339) for the Applicant(s) No. 1, 2, 3 MR. JAY M THAKKAR(6677) for the Respondent(s) No. 3 MS. SHRUTI PATHAK APP(2) for the Respondent(s) No. 1 RULE SERVED(64) for the Respondent(s) No. 2 CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ILESH J. VORA Date: 16/12/2021 ORAL ORDER Considering the issues involved in the present application and with consent of the learned advocates appearing for the parties as well as considering the fact that the dispute amongst the applicants and victim has been resolved amicably, this application is taken up for final disposal forthwith. By way of this application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Code'), the applicants have prayed for quashing and setting aside F. I. R. bearing C. R. No. 11207050200628 of 2020 registered with Pavagadh Police Station, Dist. Panchmahal for the offence punishable under Sections 363, 366 & 114 of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 12 & 17 of the POCSO Act and to quash all other consequential proceedings arising out of the aforesaid FIR qua the applicants. Heard learned advocates for the parties. Though served, none appears for respondent No. 2. Both learned advocates would submit that the victim got married with the present applicant No. 1 and both are residing together as husband and wife. Due to their relationship, they have blessed with one child. During the pendency of present application, the matter is amicably settled amongst the parties and therefore, any further continuation of the proceedings pursuant to the impugned FIR would create hardship to the parties and further continuation of the proceedings would amount to abuse of process of law. Learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing for the State has opposed the present application and submitted that considering the seriousness of the offence, the complaint in question may not be quashed and the present application may be rejected. Learned advocate for respondent No. 3 has placed on record the settlement Affidavit duly sworn by her, which is at Annexure-C to the petition. The respondent No. 3 has filed affidavit stating inter-alia the fact that the matter is amicably settled with the applicants. The respondent No. 3 is present in person before the Court and is identified by learned advocate for respondent No. 3. Upon specific query, she has confirmed the settlement and also admits the contents of the Affidavit. Having heard the learned advocates for the parties and considering the facts of settlement and law laid down by the Apex Court [Gian Singh Vs. State of Punjab & Anr. , reported in (2012) 10 SCC 303, Madan Mohan Abbot Vs. State of Punjab, reported in (2008) 4 SCC 582, Nikhil Merchant Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation & Anr. , reported in 2009 (1) GLH 31, Manoj Sharma Vs. State & Ors. , reported in 2009 (1) GLH 190 and Narinder Singh & Ors. Vs. State of Punjab & Anr. reported in 2014 (2) Crime 67 (SC), ] this Court is of the considered view that further continuation of the criminal proceedings in relation to the impugned FIR would nothing but unnecessary harassment to the parties and trial thereon would be futile and further continuation of the proceedings would amount to abuse of process of law. Thus, to secure the ends of justice, the impugned FIR is required to be quashed and set aside in exercise of powers conferred under Section 482 of the Code.

[case 142]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD R/CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION NO. 959 of 2021 TARUNBHAI @ TULSIDAS DINUBHAI @ DINESHBHAI BARIA Versus STATE OF GUJARAT Appearance: MR BHAVIK R SAMANI(8339) for the Applicant(s) No. 1, 2, 3 MR. JAY M THAKKAR(6677) for the Respondent(s) No. 3 MS. SHRUTI PATHAK APP(2) for the Respondent(s) No. 1 RULE SERVED(64) for the Respondent(s) No. 2 CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ILESH J. VORA Date: 16/12/2021 ORAL ORDER Consideration issues involved in the present application and with consent of the learned advocates appearing for the parties as well as considering the fact that the dispute amongst the applicants and victim has been resolved amicably, this application is taken up for final disposal forthwith. By way of this application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Code'), the applicants have prayed for quashing and setting aside F. I. R. bearing C. R. No. 11207050200628 of 2020 registered with Pavagadh Police Station, Dist. Panchmahal for the offence punishable under Sections 363, 366 & 114 of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 12 & 17 of the POCSO Act and to quash all other consequential proceedings arising out of the aforesaid FIR qua the applicants. Heard learned advocates for the parties. Though served, none appears for respondent No. 2. Both learned advocates would submit that the victim got married with the present applicant No. 1 and both are residing together as husband and wife. Due to their relationship, they have blessed with one child. During the pendency of present application, the matter is amicably settled amongst the parties and therefore, any further continuation of the proceedings pursuant to the impugned FIR would create hardship to the parties and further continuation of the proceedings would amount to abuse of process of law. Learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing for the State has opposed the present application and submitted that considering the seriousness of the offence, the complaint in question may not be quashed and the present application may be rejected. Learned advocate for respondent No. 3 has placed on record the settlement Affidavit duly sworn by her, which is at Annexure-C to the petition. The respondent No. 3 has filed affidavit stating inter-alia the fact that the matter is amicably settled with the applicants. The respondent No. 3 is present in person before the Court and is identified by learned advocate for respondent No. 3. Upon specific query, she has confirmed the settlement and also admits the contents of the Affidavit. Having heard the learned advocates for the parties and considering the facts of settlement and law laid down by the Apex Court [Gian Singh Vs. State of Punjab & Anr. , reported in (2012) 10 SCC 303, Madan Mohan Abbot Vs. State of Punjab, reported in (2008) 4 SCC 582, Nikhil Merchant Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation & Anr. , reported in 2009 (1) GLH 31, Manoj Sharma Vs. State & Ors. , reported in 2009 (1) GLH 190 and Narinder Singh & Ors. Vs. State of Punjab & Anr. reported in 2014 (2) Crime 67 (SC), ] this Court is of the considered view that further continuation of the criminal proceedings in relation to the impugned FIR would nothing but unnecessary harassment to the parties and trial thereon would be futile and further continuation of the proceedings would amount to abuse of process of law. Thus, to secure the ends of justice, the impugned FIR is required to be quashed and set aside in exercise of powers conferred under Section 482 of the Code.

[case 143]
Muthu Kumar vs The State on 31 January, 2025. This Criminal Appeal arises out of the judgment of conviction and sentence rendered by the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under the POSCO Act, Chennai, in Spl. S. C. No. 195 of 2022, dated 31. 10. 2023. The appellant was tried along with one Bhuvaneswari (A2), the mother of the victim girl. The learned trial Judge found A2 guilty for the offence under Section 6 read with Section 17 @ 21(1) of the POCSO Act and convicted and sentenced her to undergo imprisonment for four months, and the period of detention already undergone has been set off under Section 428 Cr. P. C. The victim, P. W. 2, who was born on 15. 09. 2004, was a minor at the time of the incident. She had been living with her mother (A2) since her father separated from the family, taking the victim's brother with him. The appellant, an auto driver, came into contact with the victim's family when he began providing transportation. Later, he informed the victim's mother that he had divorced his wife, and the appellant and A2 began living together with the victim girl. Taking advantage of the mother's absence, the appellant forcibly committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl. This abuse continued, and the victim later became pregnant. She gave birth to a male child at home, and when complications arose with the umbilical cord, the victim sought medical treatment. This led to the involvement of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and the Police, bringing the crime to light. Following medical treatment, the Primary Health Centre staff, Nammalwarpet reported the case to the CWC after discovering the victim's pregnancy and minor status. The CWC informed the Police, and thereafter, the case was registered in Crime No. 11 of 2022 against the accused for the offences under Sections 5(j)(ii), 6 and 17 of the POCSO Act. The victim's statement was recorded. Subsequently, the victim was produced before a doctor and a Magistrate, where her statement under Section 164 of the Cr. P. C. was recorded. After recording statements from the witnesses and collecting the materials, the accused were arrested. A charge sheet was filed before the trial Court, listing 14 witnesses. Upon completion of the trial, the trial Court convicted the appellant (A1) under Section 6 of the POCSO Act. The second accused (A2) was convicted under Section 6 read with Section 17 @ 21 (1) of the POCSO Act. The learned counsel for the appellant contends that the trial Court's finding is contrary to both the law and the weight of the evidence. The learned counsel submits that the trial Court failed to properly consider the statement made by the victim, P. W. 2, who categorically stated that she and the appellant had got married. The learned Government Advocate (Criminal side) submits that the trial Court correctly considered all the relevant materials and evidence in this case, including the victim's minor status, the DNA test report, and the statements recorded during the investigation. The victim hails from a marginalized background and lives in poverty. It is the appellant's family that takes care of the victim, supports her, and provides aid in all aspects. In the result, the criminal appeal is allowed; the conviction and sentences imposed on the appellant/A1 by judgment dated 31. 10. 2023, in Spl. S. C. No. 195 of 2022, by the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under the POCSO Act, Chennai, is set aside and he is acquitted from all the charges.

[case 144]
Xxxxx vs State Of Kerala on 3 March, 2025 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V & THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. V. BALAKRISHNAN MONDAY, THE 3RD DAY OF MARCH 2025 / 12TH PHALGUNA, 1946 CRL. A NO. 572 OF 2021 CRIME NO. 122/2017 OF Meenangadi Police Station, Wayanad AGAINST THE ORDER/JUDGMENT DATED 29. 05. 2019 IN SC NO. 170 OF 2017 OF ADDITIONAL DISTRICT COURT & SESSIONS COURT - I, KALPETTA APPELLANT: XXXXX by ADV Rajendran T. G RESPONDENTS/STATE & COMPLAINANT: 1. STATE OF KERALA, REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM - 682 031. 2. THE INSPECTOR OF POLICE, MEENANGADI POLICE STATION, WAYANAD DISTRICT - 673 591. This criminal appeal has been finally heard on 21. 02. 2025, the court on 3/3/2025 delivered the following judgment. This appeal is filed by the sole accused in SC No. 170/2017, challenging his conviction under Sections 452, 376(2)(f), (n)&(i) and 506(ii) of IPC and Sections 5(l)&(n) r/w Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012('POCSO Act' for short) and sentence imposed under the aforementioned IPC provisions by the Special Court for trial of offences under POCSO Act and Children's Court, Kalpetta. The prosecution case is that on 5/3/2017 at about 10. 15 pm, the accused, who is a close relative of the victim (PW2) aged 15 years, criminally trespassed into her house situated in Oorukandy Paniya Colony and took her to a shed nearby and committed rape/aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon her. Thereafter, on 15/3/2017 at about 12 am, inside the house of the accused situated in Mundavara, the accused after threatening and intimidating her, again committed rape/aggravated sexual assault upon her. In the trial court, from the side of the prosecution, PW1 to PW16 were examined and Exhibits P1 to P24 documents and MO1 and MO2 were marked. On examination under Section 313 Cr. P. C. , the accused denied all the incriminating circumstances appearing against him in evidence and contended that he is innocent. From the side of the accused, no evidence was adduced. The trial court on an appreciation of the evidence on record, found the accused guilty and convicted him under Sections 452, 376(2)(f), (n)&(i)and Section 506(ii) of IPC and Sections 5(l)& (n) read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act. The accused was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of five years and to pay a fine of Rs. 10, 000/- under Section 452 IPC and in default, to undergo RI for six months. The accused was also sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life for the remainder of his natural life and to pay a fine of Rs. 50, 000/- each for the offences under Sections 376(2)(n), 376(2)(i) and 376(2)(f) of IPC. In case of each default, the accused was ordered to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year each. The accused was further sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of five years and to pay a fine of Rs. 10, 000/- under Section 506 (ii) IPC. In case of default, the accused was ordered to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six months. No separate sentence was awarded for the offences under the POCSO Act and the substantive sentences were ordered to run concurrently. While challenging the impugned judgment, the learned counsel for the appellant Adv. Tarin Rajendran contended that the evidence adduced by the prosecution, even if they are accepted in toto as gospel truth, will not establish the guilt of the accused.

[case 145]
Baburao S/O. Govinda Kumoti (In Jail) vs State Of Maharashtra Thr. Pso Police. .. on 2 May, 2018. .. The appellant-accused is aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 27-10-2016 rendered by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Gadchiroli in Special POCSO Case 12/2015, by and under which the accused is convicted for offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the Indian Penal Code ('IPC' for short) and Section 4 read with Section 17 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ('POCSO Act' for short) and is further convicted for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC and is sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to payment of fine of Rs. 3, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 4 read with Section 17 of the POCSO Act and to suffer rigorous imprisonment for three years and to payment of fine of Rs. 2, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC. Separate sentence for offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the IPC is not awarded. .. . The case of the prosecution is that the victim, aged 17 years on the day of the incident, was a student of standard XI. She was suffering from persistent head and body ache. The victim underwent various treatments and medications to no avail. She came to know about the accused, allegedly a quack, from her maternal aunt. She accompanied her mother to Sonsari to meet the accused who examined her and declared that the victim will have to be treated for three days. The victim and her mother stayed at the residence of the accused. On 24-1-2015 at 9-00 a. m. or thereabout the accused took the victim inside the house on the pretext of applying 'gandh' (sandalwood paste) and closed the door. The victim was asked to remove her clothes. The accused too removed his clothes and demanded sexual favour. The victim refused to oblige and attempted to raise an alarm. The accused threatened to kill her with an iron bar. The accused made the victim lie down on the floor and subjected her to forcible sexual intercourse. Since the victim did not come out of the room for a long period, her mother with the help of other villagers forcibly opened the door. The victim narrated to her mother that she was ravished. The victim and other villagers took the accused to Purada Police Station where the victim lodged report (Exhibit 6) on the basis of which offence punishable under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act was registered against the accused. Investigation ensued, upon completion of which charge-sheet was submitted under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act in the Court of Sessions Judge, Gadchiroli. The learned Sessions Judge framed charge (Exhibit 3A) for offence punishable under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act. Additional charge for offence under Section 506 of the IPC was framed vide Exhibit 37. The accused abjured guilt and claimed to be tried and the defence is of total denial and false implication. The accused is convicted for the offence under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the IPC and Section 4 read with Section 17 of the POCSO Act. .. . The victim has deposed that she was subjected to forcible sexual intercourse. This evidence is not accepted by the learned Sessions Judge, and I see no reason to take a different view. The claim of the victim that she was subjected to forcible sexual intercourse is not corroborated by medical evidence.

[case 146]
FIR No. 35/14: State vs Virender Ram: Ps Shalimar Bagh Dod: .. . on 25 March, 2015 IN THE COURT OF VINOD YADAV: ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE: (NORTHWEST)01: ROHINI DISTRICT COURTS: DELHI (Sessions Case No. 51/14) Unique ID case No. 02404R0052272014 State Vs. Virender Ram FIR No. : 35/14 U/s: 376 (2) IPC/506 IPC & 6 of POCSO Act P. S. : Shalimar Bagh State Vs. Virender Ram S/o Shri Ganesh Ram, R/o House no. 661, Gali no. 8, Ambedkar Nagar, Haider Pur, Delhi. Date of institution of case 18. 02. 2014 Date of arguments: 25. 03. 2015 Date of pronouncement of judgment:  25. 03. 2015 J U D G M E N T: 4 Facts of the case The facts of the case, as borne out from the record are that on 12. 01. 2014 at about 10. 05 AM, child M, alongwith her uncle went to PS Shalimar Bagh at Women Help Desk. They were referred to WSI Sumedha, who was present in the PS at that time. She made enquiries from child M, who told her that accused, her step father used to do 'galat kaam' with her elder sister S (hereinafter referred to as the 'child victim'). Considering the sensitivity of the matter, IO, WSI Sumedha alongwith HC Usha Kiran and Ct. Narsi Ram went to the house of 'child victim' bearing No. 661, Gali No. 8, Ambedkar Nagar, Haidarpur Gali, after entering her Departure Entry in the Daily Diary Register (DD No. 25B). At the aforesaid house, the police party found accused Virender, 'child victim' and Smt. Seema, the mother of 'child victim'. At that time, the 'child victim' did not tell about her sexual abuse by the accused. IO in her wisdom called a counsellor from an NGO by the name of 'Sampoorna', dealing with the welfare of children and women. The said NGO deputed Smt. Madhu Dass to counsel the 'child victim'. After the counselling, the 'child victim' was taken to BJRM Hospital, Jahangirpuri for her medical examination alongwith the counsellor of NGO and the mother of 'child victim' by IO and W/HC Usha Kiran. There, the 'child victim' was medically examined and thereafter, she was again counselled by the counsellor whereafter she made statement to the IO to the effect that for the last about one year, her stepfather accused Virender used to touch her body parts inappropriately with sexual intent against her wish after getting drunk. He used to intimidate her before establishing physical relations. 34 days prior to that day also, he had established physical relations with her against her wishes. She further told that she had intimated about the same to her mother, whereafter the accused had quarreled with her mother. On the basis of the aforesaid statement of the 'child victim', the case FIR was registered. The IO prepared site plan. The 'child victim' was lodged in Child Home 'Kilkaari'. Thereafter, IO reached back to the spot and made enquiries from the mother of child victim and arrested the accused. Thereafter, she prepared site plan at the instance of the mother of child victim. Accused was also got medically examined. The exhibits collected by the doctors from child victim and accused were sent for FSL examination. On 13. 01. 2014, the statement of child victim u/s 164 Cr. P. C was got recorded. The statement of the younger sister of child victim namely child M was also got recorded u/s 164 Cr. P. C on 15. 01. 2014. As no document with regard to the age of the child victim was available, therefore, the IO got her ossification test conducted at BJRM Hospital. After completion of investigation, the charge sheet in the matter was filed.

[case 147]
Sivakumar vs State Rep. By on 27 March, 2018. BEFORE THE MADURAI BENCH OF MADRAS HIGH COURT Dated: 27. 03. 2018 Orders Reserved on: 01. 03. 2018 Orders Pronounced on: 27. 03. 2018 CORAM THE HONOURABLE DR. JUSTICE S. VIMALA AND THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE T. KRISHNAVALLI Crl. A. (MD) No. 330 of 2016. Sivakumar. .. Appellant/Sole Accused -vs- State Rep. by The Inspector of Police, Lalgudi All Women Police Station, Trichy District. (Crime No. 14 of 2012). .. Respondent/Complainant. Prayer: Appeal filed under Section 374(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure praying to call for the records in pertaining to the judgment dated 17. 08. 2015 made in S. C. No. 98 of 2013 on the file of the Sessions Judge Mahila Court, Trichirappalli and set aside the same by way of allowing the appeal and pass such further or other order as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case and thus render justice. For Appellant: Mr. S. A. Ajmal Khan Amicus Curiae For Respondent: Mr. S. Chandrasekar Addl. Public Prosecutor: Judgment S. VIMALA. J? Neither my husband told me that he has been convicted by the Court and he had to suffer life imprisonment nor my cousin sister told me that she is one of the partners responsible for sending my husband to jail and for the mistake committed by both of them, punishment has been imposed upon me and my minor son. ? - This is the statement of the wife of the accused, the real victim of the crime committed by the husband and the cousin sister, thereby giving birth to a child. 2. Who is the victim of the crime committed by the accused? Is it the wife and the two children, who are the legal heirs of the accused? Is it the so called victim girl and her child fathered by the accused? 3. It is the case of the prosecution that the accused, who is the husband of one Selvi had illicit intimacy with the cousin sister of his wife, namely, minor victim (name changed) had illegal intercourse with the victim with a promise of marriage. On account of the intercourse, she became pregnant and the parents came to know about the pregnancy only after seven months of her pregnancy. The parents wanted the Doctor to abort the foetus, but the Doctor refused to abort. Only thereafter, the father of the victim girl preferred a complaint before Lalgudi All Women Police Station. 4. The Inspector of Police, Lalgudi All Women Police Station, registered a case under section 376 IPC against the accused and on completion of the investigation, a charge sheet was filed. The prosecution relied upon the evidence of PWs 1 to 10 and Ex. P1 to Ex. P15. 5. The victim girl / PW1 would state that when her parents and siblings went to coolie work, when she was alone at home, she used to meet the accused and on the strength of the promise of marriage, the accused was permitted to have sexual intercourse with her; when there was bulging of the stomach, the mother wanted to know the reason; on coming to know about the pregnancy, the mother took her to the hospital; the Doctors advised her not to abort the child; the Doctors found that the foetus was 32ft grown up; the blood samples of the suspected biological father, namely, the accused, the victim and the child Mohanakrishnan was taken and it was subjected to DNA test; the test report indicated that the accused is the biological father of the child Mohanakrishnan. 6. Whether this evidence is sufficient to establish the guilt against the accused, is the issue to be considered. ..

[case 148]
Vikas Soni vs State Of U. P. & Another on 5 August, 2021. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH. Case: - CRIMINAL REVISION No. - 1461 of 2019. Revisionist: - Vikas Soni. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. & Another. Counsel for Revisionist: - Akhilesh Kumar Pandey. Counsel for Opposite Party: - Govt. Advocate. Hon'ble Mrs. Saroj Yadav, J. This criminal revision has been preferred by the juvenile Vikas Soni through his father, under Section 102 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act of 2015 against judgement and order dated 13. 9. 2019 passed by Special Judge, (POCSO Act), Pratapgarh in Criminal Appeal No. 51 of 2019 Vikas Soni Vs. State of U. P. and order dated 2. 7. 2019 passed by the learned Juvenile Justice Board, Pratapgarh in Bail Application No. 39 of 2019 arising out of Case Crime No. 31 of 2018 under Sections 41, 411, 413, 414, 401 of Indian Penal Code, Police Station Government Railway Police, Pratapgarh. The brief factual matrix necessary for disposal of this criminal revision are as under: On 10. 7. 2018, a First Information Report was registered at Crime No. 31 of 2018 at police Station G. R. P. , Pratapgarh under Sections 41, 411, 413, 414, 401 IPC on the basis of recovery memo prepared by Sub Inspector against the revisionist and three others. According to recovery memo, the revisionist alongwith three others was arrested on the information given by a fink at the railway station, Pratapgarh making preparation to commit theft. In search of the person of the revisionist, a mobile Samsung Phone of golden colour was recovered. He confessed that he has stolen the mobile from train 4-5 days back and trying to sell the same. It has also been mentioned in the recovery memo that he is a habitual thief and has committed thefts earlier also. Investigation started. Revisionist claimed juvenility and was so declared by the learned J. J. Board vide order dated 11. 6. 2019. His age was found 16 years. He moved bail application before the J. J. Board and the same was rejected. Against the order of JJ Board, an appeal was preferred under Section 101 of the Act of 2015, that too was rejected. Learned counsel for the revisionist submitted that the revisionist has falsely been implicated in the crime and the recovery has falsely been shown and there is no independent witness of the recovery. He further submitted that the revisionist was below 18 years of age on the date of the alleged crime. There is nothing adverse to the revisionist in the report of District Probation Officer. Section 12(1) of the Act of 2015 lays down that when any person, who is apparently a child and is alleged to have committed a bailable or non-bailable offence, is apprehended or detained by the police or appears or brought before a Board, such person shall, be released on bail. The legal position is that, for a juvenile in conflict with law bail is the Rule. The bail to a juvenile can be denied exceptionally. Considering the above facts and circumstances and the settled position of law, the order of the learned J. J. Board is not sustainable. The revision is allowed. The juvenile Vikas Soni shall be released on bail in Case Crime No. 31/2019. It is pertinent to mention here, since the revisionist has now turned an adult, he shall be released upon furnishing a personal bond. The revisionist will endure conditions relating to his presence in court and will file a computer-generated copy of the order.

[case 149]
IN THE COURT OF VINOD YADAV: ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE: (NORTHWEST)01: ROHINI DISTRICT COURTS: DELHI (Sessions Case No. 111/14) Unique ID case No. 02404R0166232014 State Vs. Mahender FIR No. : 460/14 U/s: 376 IPC & 6 of POCSO Act P. S. : Sultan Puri State Vs. Mahender S/o Shri Rekha Ram, R/o O96, Krishan Vihar, Sultan Puri, Delhi. Date of institution of case 27. 05. 2014 Date of arguments: 14. 07. 2015 Date of pronouncement of judgment:  22. 07. 2015 JUDGMENT: The facts of the case as borne out from the record are that on 24. 04. 2014, on receipt of a PCR call video DD no. 89B at 7. 55 pm regarding an attempt of rape with a four year old girl, near Mother Dairy, Chand Market of P2, Sultan Puri, SI Sharwan reached at the spot i. e. P85, Krishan Vihar, Sultan Puri and on inquiry, he found that the matter was pertaining to sexual assault upon child S (hereinafter referred as child victim), a minor girl aged about 5 years and thereafter, on his request, PW10 SI Lata Sachdeva along with L/Ct. Sudesh reached at the spot. At the spot, SI Sharwan, Smt. Seema, mother of child victim and child victim met PW10 W/SI Lata Sachdeva and PW6 Sanjay, husband of Seema produced accused Mahender before her. PW10 called the NGO official at the spot and after counseling the mother of the child victim, she recorded her statement, wherein she stated that on 24. 04. 2014, at about 7. 00 pm, child victim was going to a nearby temple and she was busy in her household work and after 10/15 minutes, child victim returned home weeping and on inquiry, child victim told her that when she was going to temple, one boy, resident of backside gali, forcibly took her to his house, bolted the door from inside, pulled down his pant upto knee, removed her payjami and underwear and lied upon her and inserted his male organ into her vagina. Child victim further told her that when she started weeping loudly, said boy opened the door and thereafter, she put on her payjami and underwear and rushed to her house. She further stated that she called her husband/PW6 through phone and narrated the entire incident to him and thereafter her husband along with child victim went to the house of accused, where child victim pointed out towards the accused and identified him as the person, who had committed wrong act with her and thereafter, her husband made a call at 100 number and handed over the said boy to the police. She requested for legal action to be taken against the accused. Thereafter, child victim was medically examined at Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital. On the basis of aforesaid statement of PW4 Smt. Seema, present case FIR was registered. Child victim was also got counseled and her statement u/s 161 was recorded, wherein she also reaffirmed the acts of the accused. Site plan of the place of incident was prepared at the instance of PW6 Sanjay. Accused was arrested. He was also medically examined. The statement under Section 164 Cr. P. C of child victim was got recorded. Exhibits were sent to the FSL and after concluding the investigation, charge sheet was filed in the matter. After filing of the charge sheet in the matter, the copy thereof, was supplied to the accused. On 15. 12. 2014, charges u/s 363/366 IPC and u/s 5 (m) of Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, (hereinafter referred to as 'Act') punishable u/s 6 of Act were framed against the accused, to which, he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

[case 150]
Ravi Shankar vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 7 March, 2025. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 42208 of 2024. Applicant: - Ravi Shankar. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. And 3 Others. Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J. 1. None is present on behalf of the informant even in the revised call. 2. On telephonic conversation with the Investigating Officer, learned AGA has informed that the informant is out of station and the I. O. had telephonically informed him about the instant case on 15. 11. 2024, as such, service of notice is deemed sufficient. 3. Heard Sri Phool Singh Yadav, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Sunil Kumar, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material placed on record. 4. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 171 of 2022, under Sections 376(3), 328, 506 of I. P. C. and Sections 5j(ii), (5n)/6 of POCSO Act, during the pendency of trial. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant has argued that the applicant is absolutely innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case. He has nothing to do with the said offence as alleged in the FIR. The FIR is delayed by about six months and there is no explanation of the said delay caused. 6. Learned counsel has further stated that the allegations levelled against the applicant are per se false. The DNA report, which has been filed as Annexure-2 to the supplementary affidavit dated 11. 11. 2024, indicates that the applicant is not the biological father of the child. 7. Several other submissions have been made on behalf of the applicant to demonstrate the falsity of the allegations made against him. The circumstances which, as per counsel, led to the false implication of the applicant have also been touched upon at length. There is no criminal history of the applicant. The applicant is languishing in jail since 02. 09. 2022, as such, his fundamental rights stand violated as he is incarcerated for more than two years. 8. Per contra, learned A. G. A. has vehemently opposed the bail application on the ground that the reason of delay in institution of FIR is but obvious from the fact that the victim was found pregnant at an advanced stage at that time. 9. This Court had also fetched the report with regard to status of the trial from learned Trial Judge and as per the said report dated 25. 02. 2025, four witnesses have already been examined. 10. Learned counsel for the applicant has also stated that there is no likelihood of the applicant tampering with the evidence anymore. 11. In light of the judgement of the Supreme Court passed in Niranjan Singh and another vs Prabhakar Rajaram Kharote and others, this Court has avoided detailed examination of the evidence. 12. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, submissions made by learned counsel for the parties, the evidence on record, and taking into consideration the settled law, the Court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed. 13. Let the applicant be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties. 14. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. 15. It is made clear that observations made in granting bail to the applicant shall not in any way affect the learned trial Judge in forming his independent opinion based on the testimony of the witnesses.

[case 151]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 33647 of 2022 Applicant: - Ajeet Kumar Opposite Party: - Central Bureau Of Investigation Counsel for Applicant: - Dinesh Kumar Singh Counsel for Opposite Party: - Sanjay Kumar Yadav Hon'ble Dinesh Kumar Singh, J. Heard Sri Dinesh Kumar Singh, learned counsel for the accused-applicant as well as Sri Gyan Prakash, learned Senior Advocate and Deputy Solicitor General of India, assisted by Sri Sanjay Kumar Yadav, learned counsel for the Central Bureau of Investigation (for short? CBI? ) and perused the record. , learned A. G. A. and perused the record. The present application under Section 439 Cr. P. C. has been filed seeking bail in Case Crime No. RC10(S)/2022/SC-III/N. D. , under Sections 120-B IPC, Sections 4, 6, 8, 10, 14, 15 and 17 POCSO Act and Section 67B of Information Technology Act, Police Station CBI, Special Crime-III, New Delhi. As per the allegations in the FIR, co-accused Rambhawan and the present accused-applicant with their user IDs, kumarsonu191919@gamil. com, kumarsonu171819@gamil. com, kumarsonu181987@gamil. com and ajit18021987@yahoo. co. in respectively had shared and exchanged various Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM) i. e. picture/videos depicting children in obscene or indecent or sexually explicit manner between the period from January, 2015 and February, 2016 onwards. The present accused-applicant would ask for CSAM from co-accused Rambhawan. Accused-applicant had used several email accounts to transmit sexually explicit child abuse pictures, material, acts to several persons. This incriminating material would relate to child sexual abuse, photos, videos etc. which were recovered from the email accounts of the accused-applicant and were restored in his email accounts. On analysis and scrutiny of mobile phone data, incriminating material was recovered from the accused-applicant in the form of photographs and video clips (depicting Child in Sexually Explicit Manner) and various online social media platforms including Whatsapp and Telegram connected with the mobile phone numbers being used by the accused-applicant. The accused-applicant was in constant touch with other co-accused. Accused-applicant had met co-accused Ajay Kumar Gupta through Bluedapp (mobile app generally used by LGBT community) in the year 2019 while he was preparing for competitive exams at Patna, Bihar. The accused-applicant shared his feelings for performing sexual activities with minor kids to co-accused Ajay Kumar Gupta, resident of Sakaldiha, District Chandauli, Uttar Pradesh. On the insistence of accused-applicant, co-accused Ajay Kumar Gupta lured minor victims and captured nude photographs and video clips in the year 2019. Age of the minor kids was about 12-13 years. The sexual activity with the minor victims was photographed and video clip was made. There are several instances found during the course of investigation for exploiting the minor children by the accused-applicant. The offence committed by the accused-applicant is serious in nature, which would have effected the life and future of the minor victims. Considering the heinousness of offence, its gravity and the evidence available against the accused-applicant, this Court does not find any ground to enlarge the accused-applicant on bail. Bail application is accordingly rejected. Order Date: - 7. 2. 2023

[case 152]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD Case: - CRIMINAL REVISION No. - 1447 of 2020 Revisionist: - Kapil Opposite Party: - State of U. P. and Another Counsel for Revisionist: - Jai Singh Yadav Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Dinesh Pathak, J. Heard learned counsel for the revisionist, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the record. Instant Criminal Revision has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 13. 07. 2020 passed by Speical Judge (POCSO Act), Court No. 1, Moradabad in Criminal Appeal No. 15 of 2020 (Kapil Vs. State of U. P. & Others) as well as order dated 28. 02. 2020 passed by Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Moradabad in case crime No. 421 of 2019 under section 323, 307, 504, 506, 34 I. P. C. , Police Station- Thakurdwara, District- Moradabad. Office report dated 17. 11. 2020, reveals that learned C. J. M. has submitted his report dated 02. 11. 2020 stating therein that notice is personally served upon the opposite party No. 2. Despite service of notice, no one has put in appearance on behalf of the opposite party No. 2. Therefore, matter is heard in his absence. As per F. I. R. version, on 08. 10. 2019 at about 10: 30 a. m. while the brother of informant went to the filed to sow Barseem (Grass), Naresh and others including the present applicant came on spot and started abusing to the brother of informant. While they have been restrained, Naresh has attacked at the brother of the informant with the spade. Apart from that Devendra, Kapil and Gajendra had beaten up and used abusive language. It is submitted that present revisionist is a child in conflict with law and he has been illegally implicated in the present matter for some ulterior motive. It is submitted that in the F. I. R. no specific role has been assigned to the present revisionist, by the prosecution, in the commission of crime except he has also abused to the informant and his brother, along with other accused. It is further submitted that witnesses namely Mahipaal, Jagroop and Vivek, who have made their statements under section 161 Cr. P. C. , have not taken the name of the present applicant showing his involvement in the commission of crime. It is further submitted that the remaining three accused namely Naresh, who is the person assigned role of using spade, Gajendra Yadav and Devendra have already been enlarged on bail by this Hon'ble Court. Per contra, learned A. G. A. has vehemently opposed this criminal revision and contended that his innocence cannot be adjudicated at pre trail stage, therefore, he does not deserve any indulgence and there is likelihood of his involvement in other case. In case he is released on bail, he may misuse the liberty of bail. Upon hearing learned counsel and perusal of record and considering the complicity of accused as well as totality of facts and circumstances, at this stage without commenting on the merits of the case, I find it a fit case for bail. Let the revisionist Kapil be released on bail in case crime no. 421 of 2019, under Sections 323, 307, 504, 506, 34 I. P. C. , Police Station- Thakurdwara, District- Moradabad, on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of magistrate/court concerned. In the light of the facts and law as discussed above, impugned order passed by the Court below is not sustainable and is liable to be quashed.

[case 153]
This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of the code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, praying to enlarge the petitioners on bail in Crime No. 30/2016 of Bethamangala Police Station, Kolar Gold Fields, for the offences punishable under Sections 376(2)(F), 366(A), 506 read with 34 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Sections 5 and 6 of POCSO Act and Sections 3, 4, 5, 6 of Child Marriage Restraint Act and Section 3 (1) (10(11) of SC/ST (POA) Act.
This petition coming on for Orders this day, the court made the following:
Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned Government Pleader.
2. It is stated that one Sumashree had lodged a complaint on 19. 12. 2015 alleging that on 2. 11. 2015 at 12 noon, accused no. 1 Narasimha Raju and others had kidnapped her from Devarahalli village, Bangarpet Taluk, in order that she be married to accused no. 1. Her marriage was accordingly solemnized with accused no. 1 on 5. 11. 2015 at Bethamangala by accused no. 3 Krishnamurthy and the parents of the complainant, accused no. 9 Shriramulu and accused no. 10 Munilakshmi and others. After the wedding, accused no. 1 had forcible sexual intercourse with the complainant. It transpires that on the pretext of taking them to Police Station at Bethamangala, accused no. 5 Nallur Narayanaswamy had taken them to Devarahalli. On 9. 11. 2015, accused no. 3, it is alleged had kidnapped them from Devarahalli village and kept them in an unknown place and on 10. 11. 2015, when they came near Rajapet Road, accused no. 4 Meenakshi, sister of accused no. 1 had accosted them and abused them in foul language. And on 12. 11. 2015, Nallur Narayanaswamy, Venkataramaiah, Sanda Muniswamy and Manu took the victim and handed over to her parents and thereafter the complainant had lodged a complaint.
3. The allegations are vague. The accusation of the complainant having been kidnapped and having been subjected to forcible sexual intercourse is lost in continuous narration of the sequence of events. Therefore, the petitioner has made out a case for grant of bail, especially since accused nos. 2 and 3 have already been enlarged on bail.
Therefore, the petition is allowed. The petitioner shall be enlarged on bail on his furnishing a self bond in a sum of Rs. 25, 000/- with a surety for a likesum to the satisfaction of the trial court, subject to following conditions:
(i) The petitioner shall not tamper or prevail upon the prosecution witnesses in any manner.
(ii) The petitioner shall attend the court on all dates of hearing.
(iii) The petitioner shall not leave the jurisdiction of the court below without prior permission.
(iv) the petitioner shall cooperate with the Investigating Authority.

[case 154]
Sanjay Alias Machhi vs State Of Haryana on 19 September, 2018 IN THE HIGH COURT OF PUNJAB AND HARYANA AT CHANDIGARH CRM-M-30325-2018 Date of decision: -19. 9. 2018 Sanjay alias Machhi. .. Petitioner Versus State of Haryana. .. Respondent CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE H. S. MADAAN Present: Mr. Rajesh Bansal, Advocate for the petitioner. Mr. Neeraj Poswal, AAG, Haryana. H. S. MADAAN, J. This petition for regular bail has been filed by petitioner - Sanjay alias Machhi- an accused in FIR No. 459 dated 17. 5. 2018, under Sections 341, 354-A, 354-D, 506 IPC (Section 8 of POCSO Act added later on), registered with Police Station Chandni Bagh, District Panipat. Briefly stated, the facts of the case, as per the prosecution story, are that the complainant(name not being mentioned to conceal her identity and referred to as 'the victim') daughter of Dharamvir, resident of Shashtri Colony, Panipat, a student of 10th class in R. S. High School, Panipat had lodged the FIR in question by submitting a written complaint to Incharge, Police Post Kishanpura, Panipat. Inter alia in the complaint, she submitted that when she used to go to school then accused Sanjay alias Machhi son of Shobh Raj, resident of their locality used to follow her and passed obscene remarks; that on 15. 5. 2018 while she was going in the street then Sanjay alias Machhi intercepted her catching hold of her hand and indulged in teasing her, threatening her that if she disclosed the incident to anyone, then he would kill her. Accused was arrested in this case on 17. 5. 2018. After completion of investigation, he has been challaned and now the case is pending trial. He had filed an application for regular bail in the Court of Sessions, which was declined by learned Additional Sessions Judge, Panipat vide order dated 3. 7. 2018, as such, he has approached this Court with the same request. Notice of the petition was given to respondent - State and counsel representing the State has put in appearance. I have heard learned counsel for the parties besides going through the record. After hearing the rival contentions of learned counsel for the parties, I find that the incidents of child abuse and molestation of young girls are increasing day by day. It is not safe for the womenfolk to venture out of their houses even. A serious law and order problem in that regard is fast emerging. In case precautionary measures are not taken at the initial stage, the things may get out of hand and would be very difficult to control. The persons harassing molesting and sexually abusing young girls need to be dealt with an iron hand and no leniency can be shown to them. The petitioner has indulged in teasing a minor girl of his own locality catching hold of her hand with intent to outrage her modesty and gave beatings to her. He also threatened to kill her brothers. The trial against the petitioner is going on. The statement of victim/prosecutrix is yet to be recorded. The guilt of the accused shall be determined during the trial. The apprehension expressed by the State counsel that if petitioner is granted bail, there is every likelihood to his absconding and even trying to induce the prosecution witnesses, especially the prosecutrix and her family members, cannot be brushed aside lightly. Therefore, finding no merit in the petition, the same stands dismissed.

[case 155]
A. Sudha Maheswari vs The Superintendent Of Police on 8 July, 2022
Madras High Court
A. Sudha Maheswari vs The Superintendent Of Police on 8 July, 2022
Bench: P. N. Prakash, R. Hemalatha
HCP(MD)No. 1082 of 2022
BEFORE THE MADURAI BENCH OF MADRAS HIGH COURT
DATED: 08. 07. 2022
The Honourable Mr. Justice P. N. PRAKASH
The Honourable Mrs. Justice R. HEMALATHA
H. C. P. (MD)No. 1082 of 2022
A. Sudha Maheswari. . Petitioner / Sister of
1. The Superintendent of Police,
Thoothukudi District, Thoothukudi.
2. The Inspector of Police,
All Women Police Station,
Pudukottai, Thoothukudi District
3. The Superintendent
Muthukuviyal Women Home and Hostel
Opposite to District Court,
Thoothukudi District. .. Respondents
Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India to issue a writ of Habeas Corpus to direct the respondents No. 1 and 2 to produce the body or person of the petitioner's younger sister namely Muthulakshmi (detenue) D/o. Mupidathi aged about 19 years before this Court and set her at liberty. For Petitioner: Mr. M. Prabhu For Respondents: Mr. T. Senthilkumar Additional Public Prosecutor
[Order of the Court was made by P. N. PRAKASH, J. ]
For the sake of anonymity, the detenue in this case is referred to as X. It is the case of the petitioner that her sister X aged 19 years, was sexually abused, in connection with which, a case in Pudukottai All Women Police Station Crime No. 1/2019 was registered on 01. 03. 2019 against the petitioner's mother and one Anbalagan, who is said to have abused the girl. During the course of investigation, it was found that X had conceived. However, the foetus was aborted and on the orders of the Child Welfare Committee, X was lodged in the third respondent hostel, where she continues to stay even now. Alleging that X is in the illegal custody of the third respondent, the present habeas corpus petition has been filed.
Today, Mrs. A. Ramalakshmi, Inspector of Police, Ms. S. Nagapushpam, WHC 870, All Women Police Station, Pudukottai are present. Ms. A. Muthulakshmi, (Assistant), Annai Sathya Ammaiyar Memorial Home for Destitute Children, Nilaikundam, is present. X was produced before us. When we enquired X, she stated that she is doing her 12th standard and that she is not in the illegal detention of the third respondent. She further stated that she does not want to go to the petitioner and wants to continue her studies.
The learned Additional Public Prosecutor submitted that the investigation in Crime No. 1/2019 has been completed and a final report has been filed in Spl. C. C. No. 25/2020 in the Special Court for POCSO cases, Tuticorin against the mother of X and Anbalagan and the case is ripen for trial. X should have to give evidence in that case and therefore, it would not be possible to shift her from the third respondent hostel or permit free access to her, because she could be intimidated and turned hostile. Therefore, we find X is not in the illegal custody of the third respondent for issuance of a writ of Habeas Corpus. However, we direct the second and third respondents to ensure that sufficient protection is given to X and that she testifies in Spl. S. C. No. 25/2020 before the Special Court for POCSO cases. Accordingly, the Habeas Corpus Petition is dismissed.

[case 156]
R. Dakshina Murthy vs State Rep. By on 9 November, 2022. This Criminal Original Petition has been preferred to call for the records in Spl. S. C. No. 20 of 2020, on the file of the learned Special Judge (POCSO Cases) at Puducherry. The case in Spl. S. C. No. 20 of 2020 has arisen out of the FIR registered in Crime No. 158 of 2016 on the complaint given by the second respondent / defacto complainant. The defacto complainant and the accused Logashanmuga Perumal in Crime No. 158 of 2016 are relatives and shared the same household building by residing in separate portions. The allegation is that on 27. 10. 2016 at about 21. 30 hours, the accused Logashanmuga Perumal and Sumathi had assaulted the daughter of the defacto complainant on chest, stomach and private parts and thereby caused bleeding injuries on her and they also assaulted the other daughter of the defacto complainant. When the case was pending for investigation, the present petitioner has also been impleaded as one of the accused on the allegations made by the minor daughters of the defacto complainant about the sexual assault caused on them. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the husband of the defacto complainant and Logashanmuga Perumal / second accused are brothers and the third accused Sumathi is the wife of the second accused; the parents of the second accused, the family of the second accused and the family of the defacto complainant are living separately in three portions of the same building; though the complaint dated 29. 10. 2016 stated about the occurrence that had taken place on 27. 10. 2016, no allegation has been made against the petitioner; since the petitioner in his capacity as an advocate, has filed a petition to quash the FIR against the second and third accused; he has been falsely implicated in this case; even though there is no allegation of sexual assault made in the complaint, the defacto complainant developed these allegations subsequently; 164 Statement obtained from the daughters of the defacto complainant on 21. 01. 2020 and in view of that, the petitioner has been impleaded as an accused; so the allegations are made just to implicate the petitioner in this case. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the husband of the defacto complainant and Logashanmuga Perumal / second accused are brothers and the third accused Sumathi is the wife of the second accused; the parents of the second accused, the family of the second accused and the family of the defacto complainant are living separately in three portions of the same building; though the complaint dated 29. 10. 2016 stated about the occurrence that had taken place on 27. 10. 2016, no allegation has been made against the petitioner; since the petitioner in his capacity as an advocate, has filed a petition to quash the FIR against the second and third accused; he has been falsely implicated in this case; even though there is no allegation of sexual assault made in the complaint, the defacto complainant developed these allegations subsequently; 164 Statement obtained from the daughters of the defacto complainant on 21. 01. 2020 and in view of that, the petitioner has been impleaded as an accused; so the allegations are made just to implicate the petitioner in this case.

[case 157]
This is an appeal preferred under Section 14A(2) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, hereinafter referred to as the Act. The appellant is the accused in Crime No. 45/2021 of Vellikulangara Police Station in Thrissur District. The case was registered on the basis of the First Information Statement given by the victim girl, who is only 11 years old, alleging offence punishable under Sections 354, 354A(1)(ii), 354A(1)(iv), 354B, 447 of the IPC, Sections 7 r/w 8, 10 r/w 9(m) of the POCSO Act and Sections 3(1)(w)(i), 3(1)(w)(ii), 3(2)(Va) of the SC/ST POA Act, 1989. The substance of the allegation is that the appellant had taken the minor girl to the terrace of his own house at Maramkode, made sexual advancements against her after trying to denude her. When the child had escaped from his custody and run away to her house in the neighbourhood, he chased her by trespassing upon their property and called her through the window. The appellant was arrested on 21. 01. 2021 and since then is in judicial custody. The application for bail moved before the Special Court was dismissed by the impugned order dated 09. 02. 2021. Notice was issued to the victim as provided under Section 15A(5) of the Act. On receipt of notice, a counsel has entered appearance for the victim. The learned counsel on both sides were heard. According to the learned counsel for the appellant, there is no allegation of any aggravated sexual offence against the victim, that she has not suffered any injury, investigation is almost over, that the appellant is in custody for more than 48 days, he has two small children and also to look after his mentally re-tarted sister. On the other hand, the learned counsel for the victim submitted that the father of the victim is no more, the victim is being maintained by her mother who is a housemaid; they reside about two kms. away, the mother goes for work after taking the child to her sister's house and the appellant is the neighbour of that house; after the incident, the child is in a very frightened condition; they are afraid of the appellant. The victim is a 11 year old girl. There are prima facie reasons to think that the appellant had made advances against the child with clear intention of abusing her sexually. The place of occurrence is the terrace portion of the residential building of the appellant. The victim is a contemporanean of the children of the appellant. It is patent, at least for the present, that he had approached the child with malicious and corrupt intention to ravish her. The learned Public Prosecutor is not in a position to state the stage of investigation. But it is evident that final report is not yet filed. In the said circumstances and having regard to the submission of the learned counsel for the victim, that they are in a very traumatic stage after the incident, it is not in the interests of justice to release the appellant on bail. The allegations and the gravity of the offence also desist the Court from considering the application for bail at this stage. The learned Special Judge has dismissed the application for bail, taking into consideration all relevant aspects. There is no reason to interfere with the order. The appeal is dismissed.

[case 158]
Hamza vs State Of Kerala on 31 August, 2017. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. UBAID TUESDAY, THE 17TH DAY OF OCTOBER 2017/25TH ASWINA, 1939 Bail Appl. .No. 7052 of 2017 () CRMC 1066/2017 of SPECIAL COURT FOR THE TRIAL OF OFFENCES AGAINST CHILDREN (ADDITIONAL SESSIONS COURT-I), MANJERI DATED 31. 8. 2017 CRIME NO. 192/2017 OF EDAKKARA POLICE STATION, MALAPPURAM. PETITIONER(S)/ACCUSED: HAMZA, AGED 42 YEARS, S/O. MOIDEENKUTTY, CHAPPATHODIKA HOUSE, PALLIPADI PALEMADU P. O. , EDAKKARA, MALAPPURAM DISTRICT. BY ADVS. SRI. P. VENUGOPAL SMT. T. J. MARIA GORETTI RESPONDENT(S)/COMPLAINANT: STATE OF KERALA REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM - 682 031 (REPRESENTING S. H. O EDAKKARA POLICE STATION IN CRIME NO. 192/2017). BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR SRI. SAJJU. S. THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 17-10-2017, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: O R D E R The petitioner herein is the accused in Crime No. 192/2017 of Edakkara Police Station. He seeks pre arrest bail under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the apprehension of arrest and custodial harassment in connection with the said crime registered under Sections 7 & 8 of the POCSO Act and Section 5 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. The victim of offence in this case is a boy aged 17 years. His complaint is that on a day some time prior to 26. 7. 2017, the petitioner herein pressed on his penis, and thus sexually abused him. The complaint does not contain the date of the alleged incident. The complaint was filed by the victim on 26. 7. 2017, on the intervention of the child line people. The prosecution records would show that when examined under Section 164 Cr. P. C. , the victim stated the date of incident as 22. 6. 2017. The complaint does not contain any reason for the delay in making the complaint. It appears that the victim made the complaint at the instance of somebody. The petitioner's case is that the present complaint is the result of some other animosity. Let the factual aspects be probed into by the trial court during trial. In the present circumstances, where things are slightly doubtful I feel it appropriate to grant pre arrest bail to the accused. It will suffice that the petitioner is directed to report before the Investigating Officer for necessary interrogation. In the result, this petition for pre arrest bail is allowed. The petitioner is ordered to be released on bail on his executing a bond with two solvent sureties for 40, 000/- (Rupees Forty thousand only) each to the satisfaction of the arresting officer or the court below having jurisdiction, in case of his arrest in connection with Crime No. 192/2017 of Edakkara Police Station. Bail is granted on condition that; a) The petitioner shall report before the Investigating Officer between 10 a. m. and 11 a. m. on all Mondays for a period of two months. b) The petitioner shall not leave the limits of Edakkara Police Station for a period of two months. c) The petitioner shall not in any manner influence or intimidate the material witnesses, or he shall not have any contact with the material witnesses directly or over telephone or otherwise.

[case 159]
Smt. Mamta Tiwari vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 2 September, 2021. This criminal revision under Sections 397/401 of Cr. P. C. has been filed against the order dated 10. 08. 2018 passed by the Special Judge (POCSO Act), Gwalior in Special Case No. 86/2019, by which the charges under Sections 16 and 17 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short "POCSO Act") have been framed. It is submitted by the counsel for the applicant that the applicant is working as a Counsellor and during her routine inspection of Ashram Shanti Niketan Balika Grih, Birla Nagar, Hazira, Gwalior, the prosecutrix, who is mentally retarded minor and is staying in the Ashram informed that Jain Baba posted in the said Ashram was continuously violating her sexually. During the course of investigation, it was found that the applicant was aware of the physical violation of the minor prosecutrix, who was mentally retarded, and in spite of that, she did not take any action against Jain Baba. When the applicant saw misdeeds of Jain Baba, then instead of taking any action against the co-accused Jain Baba, she simply requested him not to do the said act. The Trial Court by order dated 10. 08. 2021 has framed charges under Sections 16 and 17 of POCSO Act. It is submitted that the allegations are false. The witnesses had not spoken against the applicant at the first instance, but only in the supplementary statement, it was alleged that the applicant had seen the misdeeds of co-accused Jain Baba and instead of taking any action against him, he had simply requested Jain Baba not to indulge in the said act. Thus, it is submitted that such allegation is afterthought and cannot be relied upon. Per contra, counsel for the State has supported the impugned order dated 10. 08. 2018. Sections 16 and 17 of POCSO Act read as under: "16. Abetment of an offence. - A person abets an offence, who- First. -Instigates any person to do that offence; or Secondly. - Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that offence, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in order to the doing of that offence; or Thirdly. -Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that offence. Explanation I. -A person who, by wilful misrepresentation, or by wilful concealment of a material fact, which he is bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to cause or procure a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that offence. Explanation II. -Whoever, either prior to or at the time of commission of an act, does anything in order to facilitate the commission of that act, and thereby facilitates the commission thereof, is said to aid the doing of that act. Explanation III. - Whoever employ, harbours, receives or transports a child, by means of threat or use of force or other forms of coercion, abduction, fraud, deception, abuse of power or of a position, vulnerability or the giving or receiving of payments or benefits to achieve the consent of a person having control over another person, for the purpose of any offence under this Act, is said to aid the doing of that act.

[case 160]
THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 16-03-2018,
THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING:
1. This petition seeking an order of pre-arrest bail is preferred
by the accused in Crime No. 42 of 2018 of the Hosdurg
Police Station, registered under Sections 366 and 377 of
the Indian Penal Code and under Sections 5(I), (m) and 6
of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,
2012 (for short 'POCSO').
2. The aforesaid crime was registered on the basis of
information furnished by a minor girl who was studying in
the IV Standard. She used to travel to the School in the
autorickshaw of the petitioner herein. The child in her
statement has stated in clear and unambiguous terms that
while she was in the III and IV standard, the petitioner
used to sexually assault her on multiple occasions. It is
further alleged that on 11. 1. 2018, the victim was taken to
the residential home of the petitioner herein and after
removing her clothes, she was subjected to gross sexual
3. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted
that the allegations are without basis. According to the
learned counsel, even if the allegations are admitted as
such, offence under Section 5 r/w. Section 6 of the Act will
not be made out. It is further alleged that other crimes
have also been registered at the instance of the minor child
which would render her case against the petitioner suspect.
4. The learned Public Prosecutor has opposed the prayer. It is
submitted that the medical examination report of the victim
reveal that she was subjected to sexual abuse.
5. I have considered the submissions advanced.
6. Having regard to facts and circumstances, the contention of
the learned counsel that the petitioner is totally innocent
cannot be countenanced. The medical certificate of the
injured sufficiently corroborates the case of the
prosecution. In that view of the matter, it does not appear
to me that this Court will be justified in arming the
petitioner with an order of pre-arrest bail.
7. However, the learned counsel prays that a direction be
issued to enable the petitioner to surrender before the
jurisdictional court. I do not see any need for issuance of
any such directions. The petitioner shall surrender as
expeditiously as possible and if an application for bail is
filed, the same shall be considered and orders shall be
passed on its merits.
This petition will stand dismissed.
Raja Vijayaraghavan V. ,

[case 161]
Babu vs State Of Kerala on 29 November, 2017. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM. PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V. WEDNESDAY, THE 29TH DAY OF NOVEMBER 2017/8TH AGRAHAYANA, 1939. Bail Appl. .No. 8184 of 2017. PETITIONER(S)/ACCUSED: BABU, AGED 52 YEARS, S/O. THAMPI, CHEMBAKASSERRY HOUSE, PULAYETTIKKARA, ARAYANKAVU, ERNAKULAM DISTRICT. RESPONDENT(S)/COMPLAINANT: STATE OF KERALA. THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 29-11-2017, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: ORDER 1. This application is filed under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 2. The petitioner herein is the sole accused in Crime No. 1336 of 2017 of Mulanthuruthy police station, registered alleging offence punishable under Sections 450, 376(2), (i), (n), 506 IPC and Section 3(d) r/w Sec. 4, 5(1), (m), (n), r/w Sec. 6 of POCSO Act, 2012. 3. The victim in the instant case is a minor girl aged 13 years. Her mother is no more and her father has remarried and is living elsewhere. She is now admitted in the Don Bosco Snehabhavan at Ernakulam. It appears that when she appeared moody and showed behavioral problems, a Counselor interacted with her. The disclosure she made is heart rending. The Counselor informed the child line authorities who in turn intimated the police. It is in the above fact scenario that the crime was registered. 4. According to the victim child, who is now studying in the 8th standard, the petitioner is a near relative and she calls him 'valiachan'. According to her, when she was in the 2nd standard, the petitioner started sexually assaulting her. He used to touch her private parts and used to perform oral sex on her. She was made to touch his genitals as well. On various occasions thereafter, the petitioner repeated the same acts. As she had no one to disclose the sexual abuse that she was being subjected to and as she was confused, she did not reveal this fact to anyone. In the month of September, 2017, the petitioner repeated the same acts. This tormented her and she became moody and restless which fact was noticed by the Counselor. Pursuant to the registration of the crime, the petitioner was arrested on 28. 10. 2017 and has been in custody since then. 5. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner submits that the petitioner is a 52 year old man and is undergoing treatment for cardiac ailments at the Kottayam Medical College Hospital for the past six months. It is submitted that there are serious inconsistencies in the statement given by the victim child. There was no way that the petitioner could have sexually assaulted the minor child is the submission. 6. The learned Public Prosecutor has opposed the prayer and has made available the case diary for perusal. 7. I have gone through the same and It tells a very sad story. The victim child is a destitute with no one to look after and has been housed in various institutions since a very young age. The petitioner, by abusing his status as a near relative, has sexually assaulted the child. The investigation is still in the early stages and I find no reason to release the petitioner on bail. This application is dismissed.

[case 162]
Kerala High Court, Manikandan vs State Of Kerala on 14 July, 2020. The petitioner is the sole accused in SC No. 585 of 2019 pending before the First Additional Sessions Court (Special Court), Palakkad. The case against the petitioner originated on registration of Crime No. 466 of 2018 at the Pudunagaram Police Station for offences under Section 376 (2) (n) of IPC and Sections 6 r/w 5 (j)(ii)(I) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The allegation which led to the registration of the Crime is that the petitioner and the victim had eloped on 18. 05. 2018, when the victim was a minor and that, after marrying the victim, the petitioner had subjected her to penetrating sexual assault and had thereby committed the offences. The aunt of the victim, who had filed the complaint leading to registration of the crime has filed an affidavit stating that the victim, whose parents were no more, had eloped with the petitioner and had married him. A legal marriage was conducted on 08. 12. 2019, after the victim became major and the marriage was registered on 25. 02. 2020. One girl child is born out of the relationship between the petitioner and the victim and that the petitioner and the victim are living as husband and wife. The victim has also filed an affidavit reiterating the above facts and further stating that she has no subsisting grievance against the petitioner. It is stated that continuance of the harmonious marital life of the petitioner and the victim require quashing of the criminal proceedings. I heard the learned Public Prosecutor, who, on instructions, submits that the petitioner has no criminal antecedent and that the affidavit seeking quashing of the proceedings was submitted on her own volition. It is submitted that, though the sexual relationship of the petitioner with the victim was immediately prior to the victim becoming major, the fact that the petitioner had married the victim after she became a major and that both of them are leading a harmonious married life, can be taken into consideration. I take note of the fact that both the petitioner and the victim are rustic villagers and that after eloping from their parental homes, had married and lived as husband and wife. Immediately after the victim attaining 18 years, their marriage was registered and they are leading a harmonious marital life. Moreover, in view of the settlement arrived at between the parties, there is no possibility of the criminal proceedings ending in conviction. As such, continuance of the proceeding will amount to an abuse of process of court and hence, in view of the legal position set out by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Madan Mohan Abbot v. State of Punjab, Gian Singh v. State of Punjab and another, there is no impediment in granting the relief. In the aforementioned peculiar circumstances, I deem it appropriate to allow the Crl. M. C, even though the offences alleged are under Section 376 (2) (n) of IPC and Section 6 r/w 5 (j)(ii)(I) of the POCSO Act. In the result, Crl. M. C is allowed; the proceedings in SC No. 585 of 2019 pending before the First Additional Sessions Court (Special Court), Palakkad, is quashed.

[case 163]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V FRIDAY, THE 16TH DAY OF MARCH 2018 / 25TH PHALGUNA, 1939 Bail Appl. .No. 779 of 2018 ------------------------------------------- CRIME NO. 42/2018 OF HOSDURG POLICE STATION, KASARGOD PETITIONER(S)/ACCUSED --------------------------- KANNAN @ KUNHIKANNAN AGED 65 YEARS, S/O. AMBADI, THIRTHAMKARA, KANHANGAD, HOSDURG, KASARAGOD DISTRICT. BY ADV. SRI. T. K. VIPINDAS RESPONDENT(S)/STATE: --------------------------- THE STATE OF KERALA REPRESENTED BY THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM-682031, REPRESENTING S. H. O. HOSDURG POLICE STATION, KASARGOD DISTRICT. R BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR SRI. AJITH MURALI THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 16-03-2018, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: ORDER 1. This petition seeking an order of pre-arrest bail is preferred by the accused in Crime No. 42 of 2018 of the Hosdurg Police Station, registered under Sections 366 and 377 of the Indian Penal Code and under Sections 5(I), (m) and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO'). 2. The aforesaid crime was registered on the basis of information furnished by a minor girl who was studying in the IV Standard. She used to travel to the School in the autorickshaw of the petitioner herein. The child in her statement has stated in clear and unambiguous terms that while she was in the III and IV standard, the petitioner used to sexually assault her on multiple occasions. It is further alleged that on 11. 1. 2018, the victim was taken to the residential home of the petitioner herein and after removing her clothes, she was subjected to gross sexual abuse. 3. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that the allegations are without basis. According to the learned counsel, even if the allegations are admitted as such, offence under Section 5 r/w. Section 6 of the Act will not be made out. It is further alleged that other crimes have also been registered at the instance of the minor child which would render her case against the petitioner suspect. 4. The learned Public Prosecutor has opposed the prayer. It is submitted that the medical examination report of the victim reveal that she was subjected to sexual abuse. 5. I have considered the submissions advanced. 6. Having regard to facts and circumstances, the contention of the learned counsel that the petitioner is totally innocent cannot be countenanced. The medical certificate of the injured sufficiently corroborates the case of the prosecution. In that view of the matter, it does not appear to me that this Court will be justified in arming the petitioner with an order of pre-arrest bail. 7. However, the learned counsel prays that a direction be issued to enable the petitioner to surrender before the jurisdictional court. I do not see any need for issuance of any such directions. The petitioner shall surrender as expeditiously as possible and if an application for bail is filed, the same shall be considered and orders shall be passed on its merits. This petition will stand dismissed.

[case 164]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V FRIDAY, THE 16TH DAY OF MARCH 2018 / 25TH PHALGUNA, 1939 Bail Appl. .No. 779 of 2018 ------------------------------------------- CRIME NO. 42/2018 OF HOSDURG POLICE STATION, KASARGOD PETITIONER(S)/ACCUSED --------------------------- KANNAN @ KUNHIKANNAN AGED 65 YEARS, S/O. AMBADI, THIRTHAMKARA, KANHANGAD, HOSDURG, KASARAGOD DISTRICT. BY ADV. SRI. T. K. VIPINDAS RESPONDENT(S)/STATE: --------------------------- THE STATE OF KERALA REPRESENTED BY THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM-682031, REPRESENTING S. H. O. HOSDURG POLICE STATION, KASARGOD DISTRICT. R BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR SRI. AJITH MURALI THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 16-03-2018, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: ORDER 1. This petition seeking an order of pre-arrest bail is preferred by the accused in Crime No. 42 of 2018 of the Hosdurg Police Station, registered under Sections 366 and 377 of the Indian Penal Code and under Sections 5(I), (m) and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO'). 2. The aforesaid crime was registered on the basis of information furnished by a minor girl who was studying in the IV Standard. She used to travel to the School in the autorickshaw of the petitioner herein. The child in her statement has stated in clear and unambiguous terms that while she was in the III and IV standard, the petitioner used to sexually assault her on multiple occasions. It is further alleged that on 11. 1. 2018, the victim was taken to the residential home of the petitioner herein and after removing her clothes, she was subjected to gross sexual abuse. 3. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the allegations are without basis. According to the learned counsel, even if the allegations are admitted as such, offence under Section 5 r/w. Section 6 of the Act will not be made out. It is further alleged that other crimes have also been registered at the instance of the minor child which would render her case against the petitioner suspect. 4. The learned Public Prosecutor has opposed the prayer. It is submitted that the medical examination report of the victim reveal that she was subjected to sexual abuse. 5. I have considered the submissions advanced. 6. Having regard to facts and circumstances, the contention of the learned counsel that the petitioner is totally innocent cannot be countenanced. The medical certificate of the injured sufficiently corroborates the case of the prosecution. In that view of the matter, it does not appear to me that this Court will be justified in arming the petitioner with an order of pre-arrest bail. 7. However, the learned counsel prays for a direction that the petitioner be allowed to surrender before the jurisdictional court. I do not see any need for issuance of any such directions. The petitioner shall surrender as expeditiously as possible and if an application for bail is filed, the same shall be considered and orders shall be passed on its merits. This petition will stand dismissed.

[case 165]
Gurmeet Singh @ Gurmit Singh vs State Of Punjab on 24 September, 2018 The petition under Section 438 Cr. P. C. for pre-arrest bail has been filed by the petitioner - Gurmeet Singh @ Gurmit Singh, an accused in FIR No. 91 dated 12. 8. 2018, under Sections 354, 506 IPC and Section 12 of POCSO Act, registered at Police Station Talwandi Chaudrian, District Kapurthala. Briefly stated, the facts of the case, as per the prosecution story, are that on 12. 8. 2018, the victim aged about 12 years, niece of complainant Mangal Singh, resident of Khijarpur, Police Station Talwandi Chaudrian, District Kapurthala had gone to the fields to pluck chillies, then at about 8: 30 a. m. , Gurmit Singh (present petitioner) caught her from her arm, hugged her, kissed her on face and started doing obscene acts with her; the victim freed herself from his clutches and ran away; the accused had threatened to kill the victim in case she disclosed the incident to anybody. However, on return home, the victim informed her uncle the complainant in that regard, who summoned Gurmeet Singh @ Gurmit Singh to his house and confronted him regarding the incident, then Gurmeet Singh @ Gurmit Singh started giving threats to them. The complainant accordingly reported the matter to the police. Formal FIR was registered. Apprehending his arrest in this case, the petitioner had approached the Court of Sessions seeking grant of pre-arrest bail by filing an application, however, his such request was declined by learned Additional Sessions Judge, Kapurthala vide order dated 24. 8. 2018. As such, the petitioner has approached this Court asking for the similar relief. Notice of the petition was given to respondent - State, which put in appearance through counsel. I have heard learned counsel for the parties besides going through the records. Pre arrest bail is a discretionary relief and is to be granted in exceptional cases and not in routine. It is meant to save the innocent persons from harassment and inconvenience and not to screen the culprits from custodial interrogation. In this case, there are serious allegations against the petitioner/accused of indulging in obscene acts with a minor girl and outraging her modesty. I find that the incidents of child abuse and molestation of young girls are increasing day by day. It is not safe for the womenfolk to venture out of their houses even. A serious law and order problem in that regard is fast emerging. In case precautionary measures are not taken at the initial stage, the things may get out of hand and would be very difficult to control. The persons harassing molesting and sexually abusing young girls need to be dealt with iron hand and no leniency can be shown to them. Custodial interrogation of the petitioner is definitely required for complete and effective investigation. In case custodial interrogation of the petitioner is denied to the investigating agency that would leave many loose ends and gaps in the investigation affecting the investigation being carried out adversely which is not called for. Thus finding no merit in the petition, the same stands dismissed.

[case 166]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the proceedings in Spl. S. C. No. 98 of 2024 on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Theni. The case of the prosecution is that the first petitioner had married the victim girls, who was not attained her majority and the first petitioner also had sexual intercourse with her. Hence, the case has been registered. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioners, learned Counsel appearing for the first respondent and the learned counsel appearing for the second and third respondent submitted that now, the petitioners and the second respondent/defacto complainant have settled the dispute between themselves amicably and the second respondent/defacto complainant is not willing to proceed further with the criminal case. Today, when the matter was taken up for hearing a joint Memo of Compromise was filed before this Court signed by the petitioners and the second respondent and their respective counsels. The petitioners and the second respondent/defacto complainant and the victim girl present before this Court, identified by Mr. P. Chellapandian, SSI, Jeyamangalam Police Station, Theni District, as well as by the learned Counsel appearing for the parties. This Court enquired both the parties, satisfied that the parties have come to an amicable settlement between themselves on their own voluntarily without any compulsion. The third respondent/victim had stated that both the petitioner and the third respondent/victim got married. They are living happily in a separate house and she did not want to pursue with the case. She has also filed an affidavit. The relevant portion of the affidavit reads as follows: 'I respectfully submit that now I realized that the petitioners have not committed any offence as stated above. Further the petitioners have not conducted my marriage and there was no harassment on the part of the first petitioner. ' The FIR and charge sheet were laid by the officials for statistical purpose and now I am living with the first petitioner happily and now the matter has been settled amicable, on intervention of both village and community elders. Since the matter has been settled amicable, I have no objection for quashing the impugned charge sheet against the petitioner in Spl. S. C. 98 of 2024 on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Theni. The case has been registered for offences under Sections 9, 10 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 and 4(1) r/w. 17 and 18 of POCSO Act, 2012. It is settled law that the High Court has inherent power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to quash the criminal proceedings even for the offences which are not compoundable under Section 320 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the parties have settled their dispute between themselves. However, while quashing the criminal proceedings, based on the settlement arrived at between the parties, the High Court should act with caution and the power should be exercised sparingly only in order to secure the ends of justice and also to prevent abuse of process of any Court.

[case 167]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL APPEAL (DB) No. 586 of 2023 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -321 Year-2020 Thana- SABAUR District- Bhagalpur DEEPAK KUMAR Son of Upendra Mandal Resident of village - Simro, P. S. - Sabour, Distt. - Bhagalpur. .. Appellant Versus THE STATE OF BIHAR. .. . Respondent. .. .. . with CRIMINAL APPEAL (DB) No. 857 of 2023 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -321 Year-2020 Thana- SABAUR District- Bhagalpur NIKESH MANDAL @ NIKESH KUMAR S/O SUNIL MANDAL R/O VILLAGE - SIMARO, P. S. - SABOUR. .. Appellant Versus The State of Bihar. .. . Respondent. .. .. . Appearance: (In CRIMINAL APPEAL (DB) No. 586 of 2023) For the Appellant: Mr. Ramakant Sharma, Senior Advocate Mr. Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Advocate For the State: Mr. Sujit Kumar Singh, APP (In CRIMINAL APPEAL (DB) No. 857 of 2023) For the Appellant: Mr. Praveen Kumar, Advocate Mr. Raushan Kumar, Advocate For the State: Mr. Sujit Kumar Singh, APP. .. CRIMINAL APPEAL (DB) No. 586 of 2023 has been filed by accused Deepak Kumar against the judgment of conviction dated 02. 05. 2023 and order of sentence dated 09. 05. 2023, passed by learned Exclusive Special Court (POCSO Act)-cum-7th Additional Sessions Judge, Bhagalpur in POCSO Case No. 31/2021, arising out of Sabour (Goradih) P. S. Case No. 321/2020, whereby the said appellant has been convicted for the offences punishable under Sections 366A, 376/120B of the Indian Penal Code as well as under Sections 4/17 of the POCSO Act and sentenced to undergo RI for 20 years and a fine of Rs. 20, 000/- under Sections 4/17 of the POCSO Act and in default of payment of fine, he is further sentenced to undergo S. I. for six months. The appellant, namely, Deepak Kumar is further sentenced to undergo R. I. for 5 years and a fine of Rs. 10, 000/- under Section 366A of the Indian Penal Code and in default of payment of fine, he is further sentenced to undergo S. I. for three months. All the sentences were directed to run concurrently. 1. 1. Criminal Appeal (DB) No. 857 of 2023 has been filed by accused Nikesh Mandal @ Nikesh Kumar against the judgment of conviction dated 12. 07. 2023 and order of sentence dated 19. 07. 2023, passed by learned Exclusive Special Court (POCSO Act)-cum-7th Additional Sessions Judge, Bhagalpur in POCSO Case No. 95/2023, arising out of Sabour (Goradih) P. S. Case No. 321/2020, whereby the said appellant has been convicted for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 376/120(B) of the Indian Penal Code as well as under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and sentenced to undergo RI for 20 years and a fine of Rs. 20, 000/- under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and in default of payment of fine, he is further sentenced to undergo S. I. for six months. The appellant, namely, Nikesh Mandal @ Nikesh Kumar is further sentenced to undergo R. I. for 2 years and a fine of Rs. 10, 000/- under Section 363 of the Indian Penal Code and in default of payment of fine, he is further sentenced to undergo S. I. for three months. All the sentences were directed to run concurrently. .. .

[case 168]
THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 12. 04. 2017 CORAM: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. NAGAMUTHU and THE HONOURABLE DR. JUSTICE ANITA SUMANTH Habeas Corpus Petition No. 1573 of 2016 Sivashankari. . Petitioner - Vs - 1. The Superintendent of Police, O/o the Superintendent, Nagapattinam Post and District. 2. The Deputy Superintend of Police, O/o. The Deputy Superintendent of Police, Koorainadu Post, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam District. 3. The Inspector of Police, Mayiladuthurai Police Station, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam District. 4. Vimal Raj 5. Mrs. Revathi 6. Mr. Mathialagan, Regional Officer, Central Board of Film Certification, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, Chennai. 7. The Secretary to Government, Information and Public Relations Department, Secretariat, Chennai 9. 8. The Secretary to Government, Home Department, Fort St. George, Chennai 9. .. Respondents (RR 5 to 8 were impleaded as per the Orders of this Court dated 28. 11. 2016, 27. 03. 2017, 10. 04. 2017 and 11. 04. 2017 respectively) Prayer: - Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Habeas Corpus to the respondents to produce the body of the petitioner's daughter namely Santhiya aged about 17 years, who is a student of 12th standard studying in ARC Higher Secondary School, Chittarkadu, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam district before this Court and set her at liberty. For Petitioner: Mr. D. Veerasekaran For Respondents: Mr. R. Muthukumaraswamy, A. G. 1 to 3, 7 and 8 Asst. by Mr. VMR. Rajendran, APP For Respondent 6: Mr. Su. Srinivasan, Asst. S. G. I. O R D E R (Judgment of the Court was delivered by S. Nagamuthu, J. ) The Cinema is a very powerful medium which can reach out to the people at any part of the globe in lightning speed. It has the potency to influence the minds of the people especially the people of tender age. Therefore, it became all the more necessary for the Government to ensure that the cinema films which are suitable for public exhibition alone are permitted to be exhibited. 2. With the said object, the Cinematograph Act, 1952 was brought into force by the Central Government with effect from 21. 03. 1952. Under the Act, the Board of Film Censors consisting of persons of eminence and responsibility was constituted for the purpose of examining and certifying films as suitable for unrestricted public exhibition or for exhibition restricted to adults. As per Section 4 of the Act, if the Board, after examination, considers that a film is suitable for unrestricted public exhibition or that, although not suitable for such exhibition it is suitable for public exhibition restricted to adults, it shall grant to the person applying for a certificate in respect of the film a 'U' certificate in the former case and an 'A' certificate in the latter case, and shall, in either case, cause the film to be so marked in the prescribed manner, and any such certificate shall, save as hereinafter provided, be valid throughout India [. .. ].

[case 169]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the proceedings in Spl. S. C. No. 193 of 2023 on the file of the learned Special Court for the Exclusive Trial of POCSO Act Cases, Dindigul. The case of the prosecution is that the defacto complainant lodged a complaint before the first respondent stating that when her daughter was studying ITI course, she fell in love with the first petitioner, then on 08. 02. 2020 the first petitioner took the victim girl to Tiruppur and got married and stayed there up to 09. 04. 2022. In the meanwhile, the victim girl got pregnant and begotten a female child on 28. 07. 2021. Hence the case. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioners as well as the learned counsel appearing for the second and third respondents submitted that now, the petitioners and the second and third respondents have settled the dispute between themselves amicably and the second respondent is not willing to proceed further with the criminal case. Today, when the matter was taken up for hearing a joint Memo of Compromise filed before this Court signed by the petitioners and the second and third respondents and their respective counsels. The petitioners and the second and third respondents present before this Court, identified by Mr. K. Arumugam, SSI of Police, Dindigul Taluk Police Station, as well as by the learned counsels appearing for the parties. This Court enquired both the parties, satisfied that the parties have come to an amicable settlement between themselves on their own voluntarily without any compulsion. The second respondent had stated that at the time of occurrence, her daughter was minor and now she attained majority. The first petitioner and her daughter are now living happily as husband and wife. If the criminal proceeding proceeds against the first petitioner, her daughter and grand-daughter life will become questionable. Hence, she intends not to pursue the criminal proceedings against the petitioner. This Court interacted with the victim/third respondent herein, she confirms she married the first petitioner and female child was born to them and now, they are living happily. She has no objection to withdraw the criminal proceedings against the petitioners. The case has been registered for offences under Sections 366 of IPC and Sections 366(A), 363 of IPC and Sections 9, 5(l), 5(j)(ii) and 6 of POCSO Act. It is settled law that the High Court has inherent power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to quash the criminal proceedings even for the offences which are not compoundable under Section 320 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the parties have settled their dispute between themselves. However, while quashing the criminal proceedings, based on the settlement arrived at between the parties, the High Court should act with caution and the power should be exercised sparingly only in order to secure the ends of justice and also to prevent abuse of process of any Court.

[case 170]
Kerala High Court Unknown vs By Advs. Sri. I. V. Pramod on 31 July, 2018 Author: V Raja Vijayaraghavan Bench: V Raja Vijayaraghavan IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V TUESDAY, THE 31ST DAY OF JULY 2018 / 9TH SRAVANA, 1940 Bail Appl. No. 4855 of 2018 CRIME NO. 339/2018 OF VIDYA NAGAR POLICE STATION, KASARGOD PETITIONER/ACCUSED ABDULLA SAHAD, S/O. MOIDEEN, AGED 19 YEARS, NIHAL APARTMENT, NAINMARMOOOLA, CHENGALA, VIDYANAGAR, KASARAGOD. BY ADVS. SRI. I. V. PRAMOD SRI. K. V. SASIDHARAN RESPONDENT/COMPLAINANT/STATE: STATE OF KERALA, REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM, KOCHI - 682 031. BY SRI. C. N. PRABHAKARAN, SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 31-07-2018, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: NAB-31. 07. 2018 RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V, J. -------------------------------------- B. A. No. 4855 of 2018 -------------------------------------- Dated this the 31st day of July, 2018 ORDER This application is filed under Section 438 of the Cr. P. C. 2. The applicant herein is the accused in Crime No. 339 of 2018 registered at the Vidyanagar Police Station, under Sections 342 & 363 of the IPC and under Sections 7 & 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. 3. The survivor is a girl aged 15 years. The applicant is alleged to be a near relative of a friend of the victim girl. It is alleged that the victim was informed by the applicant herein that her friend was with him and she was invited to the apartment of the applicant. She reached the apartment at about 9. 45 AM on 26. 06. 2018. She was wrongfully confined in the apartment till 4 P. M. and she was not permitted to leave. It is alleged that during the period that the minor child was with the applicant herein, he subjected the victim to sexual abuse by embracing and kissing her. 4. The learned counsel appearing for the applicant submits that he is innocent. According to the learned counsel, even if it is admitted that the allegations are true, the offence under the POCSO Act will not be attracted as the act was not committed with sexual intent. 5. The learned Public Prosecutor points out that the victim was just 15 years of old and she was confined illegally and was subjected to sexual abuse by the applicant herein. 6. I have considered the submissions advanced and have gone through the case diary. Prima facie, there are materials pointing to the involvement of the applicant. The allegations are grave. I am not persuaded to exercise the discretionary powers and grant an order of anticipatory bail to the applicant. The applicant is directed to surrender before the court below and seek regular bail. If an application for bail is preferred, the same shall be considered and order shall be passed expeditiously and on its merits. This application will stand dismissed. Sd/- RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V. , JUDGE SPV //True Copy\ P. A to Judge

[case 171]
On 16. 12. 2013, the victim, a minor girl, aged about 17 years gave a written statement to the police, addressed to the DCP that about two years ago, Soni W/o Iliyas had met her with Suhail S/o Nabiullah. Suhail started talking with her on phone and also meeting her. On the pretext of marrying her, Suhail took her to the house of his brother Chhote Qureshi several times where he made forcible physical relations with her many times against her wishes. On her weeping and crying, accused Suhail took her to the house of Moni W/o Iliyas at Vasant Vihar where she was kept for about twenty days and with the help of Iliyas and Moni, Suhail again committed rape upon her on the false pretext of marriage. At that time she was about 17 years of age. When Suhail had met her with Moni, she was about 15 years and 6 months of age. When, she got rid of atrocities of Suhail, she asked him to let her go to her parents, otherwise she would commit suicide and that she could not believe that he would deceive her in such a manner and that whenever she got a chance, she would complain against him with the police. Thereupon, Suhail, Bade Qureshi, Chhote Qureshi, Akil Ahmad, Soiab, Moni and Iliyas, all favoured Suhail and gave her assurance to marry her with Suhail and she accorded to it in order to save her life and on 10. 10. 2013, her marriage/nikah was solemnized with Suhail before a court where her age was shown as 18 years in the marriage agreement, more than one year of her actual age. Thereafter, the said persons brought her to the house of brothers of Suhail at Gandhi Nagar where she was kept for two days. Thereafter, the said persons after a consultation amongst themselves kept her in a separate tenanted premises but Suhail told her that he wanted to live with his parents. She was kept well for a few days but thereafter, all the above persons demanded dowry from her, abused her and gave beatings to her and also threatened to kill her. On 07. 12. 2013, Suhail left her without informing her and when she called him, he used to give false assurances to her but did not turn up till date. The victim further stated that Suhail had been residing with his parents and threatening her that he would not keep her with him. At that time, she was carrying a pregnancy of about two months and that Bade Qureshi, Chhote Qureshi, Akil Ahmad and Suhail's sisters also started saying that they would not keep her and that Suhail had already left several girls like her and they could do nothing against him and if she tried to initiate any legal action against him, she and her family members would have to face consequences which she could not imagine. She further stated that they also came to her house and threatened her if she would not obey their commands, they would get her killed and they were in contact with bed elements. She stated that she belonged to a poor family and that is why they were ruining her life and were not keeping her with them.

[case 172]
Kerala High Court Unknown vs By Advs. Sri. I. V. Pramod on 31 July, 2018 Author: V Raja Vijayaraghavan Bench: V Raja Vijayaraghavan IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V TUESDAY, THE 31ST DAY OF JULY 2018 / 9TH SRAVANA, 1940 Bail Appl. No. 4855 of 2018 CRIME NO. 339/2018 OF VIDYA NAGAR POLICE STATION, KASARGOD PETITIONER/ACCUSED ABDULLA SAHAD, S/O. MOIDEEN, AGED 19 YEARS, NIHAL APARTMENT, NAINMARMOOOLA, CHENGALA, VIDYANAGAR, KASARAGOD. BY ADVS. SRI. I. V. PRAMOD SRI. K. V. SASIDHARAN RESPONDENT/COMPLAINANT/STATE: STATE OF KERALA, REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM, KOCHI - 682 031. BY SRI. C. N. PRABHAKARAN, SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 31-07-2018, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: NAB-31. 07. 2018 RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V, J. -------------------------------------- B. A. No. 4855 of 2018 -------------------------------------- Dated this the 31st day of July, 2018 ORDER This application is filed under Section 438 of the Cr. P. C. 2. The applicant herein is the accused in Crime No. 339 of 2018 registered at the Vidyanagar Police Station, under Sections 342 & 363 of the IPC and under Sections 7 & 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. 3. The survivor is a girl aged 15 years. The applicant is alleged to be a near relative of a friend of the victim girl. It is alleged that the victim was informed by the applicant herein that her friend was with him and she was invited to the apartment of the applicant. She reached the apartment at about 9. 45 AM on 26. 06. 2018. She was wrongfully confined in the apartment till 4 P. M. and she was not permitted to leave. It is alleged that during the period that the minor child was with the applicant herein, he subjected the victim to sexual abuse by embracing and kissing her. 4. The learned counsel appearing for the applicant submits that he is innocent. According to the learned counsel, even if it is admitted that the allegations are true, the offence under the POCSO Act will not be attracted as the act was not committed with sexual intent. 5. The learned Public Prosecutor points out that the victim was just 15 years of old and she was confined illegally and subjected to sexual abuse by the applicant herein. 6. I have considered the submissions advanced and have gone through the case diary. Prima facie, there are materials pointing to the involvement of the applicant. The allegations are grave. I am not persuaded to exercise the discretionary powers and grant an order of anticipatory bail to the applicant. The applicant is directed to surrender before the court below and seek regular bail. If an application for bail is preferred, the same shall be considered and order shall be passed expeditiously and on its merits. This application will stand dismissed. Sd/- RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V. , JUDGE SPV //True Copy\ P. A to Judge

[case 173]
SC No. 41/17 State vs. Dilkhus on 5 June, 2017 IN THE COURT OF MS. SEEMA MAINI ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE01: NORTH ROHINI: NEW DELHI. In the matter of:  (Sessions Case No. 41/17) Unique Identification No. DLNT010007902016 FIR No. 538/2016 Police Station Narela Under Section 354 A/506 IPC & 8 POCSO Act State V/s Dilkhus S/o Israfil R/o Village Chietjor, PS Kotoriya District Banka, Bihar. Presently R/o Rinku Ka Makan Kureni, Narela, Delhi110058. .. .. .Accused Date of institution 19. 01. 2017 Date of arguments 05. 06. 2017 Judgment Pronounced on 05. 06. 2017 Decision Acquitted Judgment: FIR No. 538/16 page 1 of 9SC No. 41/17 State Vs. Dilkhus The accused Dilkhus is facing trial in the present case on allegations of having made physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures and threatening the victim / prosecutrix 'K' (identity withheld), aged about 12 years. The facts in brief, which are borne out from the record are that on 22. 07. 2016, a complaint was lodged by the complainant Mr. 'S' father of the victim 'K' (identity withheld) in PS Narela to the effect that the accused Dilkhus, who was living in his house as tenant, and was aged about 19 years, for the past many days, had been making obscene and vulgar gestures and had been harassing his 12 years old daughter i. e. victim K. On 22. 07. 2016 at about 7. 00 AM, victim K had returned from her school due to ill health, and the complainant Mr. S alongwith his wife, was taking the victim K to the hospital for her checkup, and the victim K was walking 57 steps behind them. At that time, the accused came and caught hold of the hand of the victim K and also started harassing her and even stated that he loved her. When the victim K shouted and informed the complainant about the activities of the accused, he (accused) threatened them with life. Immediately the complainant ran and apprehended the accused, and with the help of other public persons, gave him beatings. During this time, someone called the police at 100 Number. Police arrived at the spot of occurrence, where the statement of the complainant was recorded, on the basis of which, Rukka was prepared and was sent to the PS through constable, who was accompanying the IO, for registration of the FIR. On the basis of the Rukka, the instant FIR bearing No. 538/16 was registered. The victim was medically examined at SRHC Hospital, where she refused to get her internal medical examination done. Accused was also got medically examined. On the pointing out of the complainant, the site plan of the spot of occurrence was prepared, and accused was arrested vide his arrest memo and personal search memo, statements of the witnesses were recorded u/s 161 CrPC. Statement of the victim K was also got recorded u/s 164 CrPC, and after the conclusion of the investigation, chargesheet was filed in the court.

[case 174]
Mrs. Praveena vs The Child Welfare Committee (North) on 5 April, 2024. W. P. No. 4843 of 2024. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 05. 04. 2024. CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. M. SUBRAMANIAM. Mrs. Praveena. .. Petitioner. Vs. 1. The Child Welfare Committee (North), Through its President / Chairman, 2. Mariyakaya Girls Home. .. Respondents. Prayer: Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Mandamus, directing the 1st respondent to consider petitioner representation dated 16. 02. 2024 and to direct the 1st respondent to pass an order to give custody of the petitioner's minor adopted child namely A. Prithika aged about 11 years to petitioner. The petitioner states that she has adopted the minor child from one Mrs. M. Preethi, who had affairs with another person. The child was adopted in the year 2012 and thereafter, it is brought up by the petitioner and another person. The minor girl is aged about 11 years and informed the School Teacher that she had been abused by the said Boopalan in the house. The School Teacher provided information to the Child Help Line, who in turn visited the child and ascertained the facts. Thereafter, took the child to the Government Home. The 1st respondent states that the child now is in safe custody in Government Home Sevasadhan. She is attending the school regularly and living happily. The learned counsel for the petitioner would submit that the child was adopted in the year 2012 and the petitioner is looking after her. Therefore, she is entitled for custody. The Child Welfare Committee-North Zone, Chennai filed a report regarding the factual aspects. In view of the fact that the child informed about her bitter experience in the house of the petitioner and abused by the said Boopalan, the child was referred to the Psychologist / Government Children Home, who in turn submitted a psychological report, which read as under. .. Considering all facts and circumstances, this Court is of the considered opinion that the petitioner is not entitled for custody. More so, the petitioner is having living-in relationship with the said Boopalan. The petitioner is a beautician and considering the nature of relationship between the petitioner and the said Boopalan, it is not advisable to send the child along with the petitioner, which would affect the child psychologically. The child must be allowed to continue her studies by staying at Sevasadhan under the custody of the Government authorities. Further, it is brought to the notice of this Court that the information received by the Child Help Line was informed to the Police for appropriate action. But the Police has not initiated appropriate action nor registered a case. .. . With these observations, the Writ Petition stands dismissed. No costs. Consequently, connected Miscellaneous Petition is closed.

[case 175]
Mahalakshmi vs The District Collector on 19 January, 2021. W. P. (MD)NO. 659 OF 2021. BEFORE THE MADURAI BENCH OF MADRAS HIGH COURT. Prayer: Writ petition is filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, to issue a Writ of Mandamus, to direct the third respondent to terminate the pregnancy of the petitioner's minor niece, namely J, D/o. Late Kaaliappan, aged about 15 within the time frame fixed by this Court. The writ petitioner is the defacto complainant in Crime No. 663 of 2020 registered on the file of the Rajapalayam South police station. The petitioner brought to the notice of the fourth respondent vide complaint dated 02. 11. 2020 that her niece Minor J was missing from the previous day. Steps were taken by the investigation officer to secure the minor. At this stage on 27. 11. 2020, the writ petitioner appeared before the fourth respondent along with the kidnapped minor. It was revealed that J was on friendly terms with one Muthukumar. Muthukumar came to be arrested in some case. Without being aware of the same, J called on his mobile phone. His friend Sundar @ Sundareswaran attended the call. He enticed J and kidnapped her. Sundar had physical intimacy with J several times from 02. 11. 2020 to 24. 11. 2020. After coming to know of her whereabouts, the petitioner brought her back and produced her before the police. J's father Kaliyappan had died in the year 2012 and her mother is mentally unstable. J was with her aunt and uncle but she was not willing to go with them. Therefore, she was admitted to a social welfare home. Since J had become pregnant, the petitioner wants this Court to direct the official respondents to terminate her pregnancy. Considering the urgency of the matter, this Court ordered notice to the respondents. Dr. R. Rajalakshmi, Assistant Surgeon, Virudhunagar Government Medical College and Hospital, after examining the minor girl, categorically opined that her gestational age is about 10-11 weeks and that continuing the pregnancy may endanger her physical and mental health. In her report, she cited the risks involved in continuing pregnancy and called upon this Court to permit termination of pregnancy on medical grounds. The report filed by the police reveals that Sundar is involved in more than 10 cases. The law of the subject is set out in Section 3 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 which describes the conditions under which a pregnancy can be terminated. In the present case, the minor's father died a long time back. Her mother is mentally unsound. Her uncle Veluchamy informed the Court that he wants the pregnancy to be terminated. The minor girl initially expressed unwillingness to terminate the pregnancy, stating she wanted to continue with it. However, she later changed her mind, stating she agreed to the termination. The Court directed the termination of the pregnancy. ..

[case 176]
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / vs The State - Rep. By on 16 November, 2017
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
RESERVED ON: 25. 08. 2021
DELIVERED ON: 02. 09. 2021
CORAM: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. N. PRAKASH and THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE R. HEMALATHA
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / Appellant
The State - Rep. by The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Coimbatore(East), Coimbatore District. (Crime No. 19 of 2015). .. Complainant / Respondent
PRAYER: Criminal Appeal filed under Section 374 (2) of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 to set aside the Judgment dated 16. 11. 2017 of the Mahila Court, Coimbatore, passed in S. C. C. No. 15/2016, convicting and sentencing the appellant under Section 5 (l), (m), (n) and Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 to undergo imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- and in default, to undergo three months rigorous imprisonment.
The case of the prosecution as could be discerned from the evidence is as follows: The defacto complainant Nithya (PW1) is the wife of the appellant / accused Vishnubhaskar. The PW1 and the appellant were living separated for the last two years and Nithya (PW1) had left her girl child aged 3 years and 9 months with her parents living in Coimbatore, as she was employed in Bangalore. The victim child was unwell on 07. 10. 2015 and since PW1 was in Bangalore and could not make it, she had requested her husband (Accused) who was living in Coimbatore at Maniyakaranpalayam, Ganapathy, Coimbatore, to take the child to the hospital. The child was reportedly taken to Sri Ramakrishna Hospital and admitted for treatment and subsequently discharged on 08. 10. 2015. Further on 17. 10. 2015 and subsequent days the child was taken out by her father (Accused) at the behest of Nithya (PW1), during which time he committed penetrative sexual assault on his own child under the guise of checking her private part for any insect. The child had symptoms of restlessness, sleeplessness, frequent urination and itchy sensation in her private part and it was on 23. 10. 2015, that the child narrated her ordeal to Meenakshi (PW2) and to Shakunthala (PW4) who are the sister-in-law and mother of PW1 respectively. PW1 was informed immediately and she rushed to Coimbatore and took the child to the Sri Ramakrishna Hospital on 24. 10. 2015 at about 05. 00 PM. .. The damage caused to the psyche of the victim child is devastating and in many cases irreversible too. Sexual assault of a child that too by her own father is even more serious and deserves no leniency and it is a matter of shame that grounds are invented to save the appellant when the child's statements have pinned him down. This is just a tip of the iceberg and therefore such crimes deserve the maximum punishment with no leniency to be shown.

[case 177]
Sc No. 1/16: Fir No. 1043/15: Ps Sultan. .. vs Faiyaz @ Payazi on 30 January, 2017
Warning on translation
1. The facts of the case as borne out from the record are that at H. No. 1368, Lakhi Ram Chowk, Kartarwali gali, Village Pooth Kalan Delhi, in one room the family of child victim, a girl aged about 5 years (hereinafter referred to as 'child victim) and in the adjoining room one Bahadur Singh and accused Faiyaz @ Payazi @ Khan had been residing. The mother of child victim had been working in a factory where bangles were being manufactured. The said factory was in the same street where her house was situated. The accused and Bahadur Singh were working in another factory. On 27. 10. 2015 at about 3 p. m. , the mother of child victim was present at her factory when the child victim came to her and started weeping. She communicated to her that the accused had inserted his finger in her vagina as a consequence whereof blood had oozed therefrom. The mother after coming to know the aforesaid fact made a call at number 100 which was recorded at P S Sultan Puri through PCR as DD No. 47B and was entrusted to WASI Sita Devi (hereinafter referred to as IO) for inquiry. The intimation of the said DD was also given to HC Surender, who also reached at the spot. IO made preliminary inquiry from the child victim and called Ms. Tabassum, a counselor from NGO Nav Shristhi and got the child victim counseled from her. Thereafter the statement of the mother of child victim was recorded. The child victim was got medically examined at SGM Hospital where she was found to be suffering from slight congestion at her hymenal area. There the mother of child victim did not permit the internal gynecological examination of the child victim. The statement of child victim U/S 164 CrPC was got recorded. The accused was arrested in the matter. The child victim was produced before child welfare committee. After completion of investigation the charge sheet in the matter was filed.
2. After filing of the charge sheet in the matter, the copy thereof was supplied to the accused. Arguments on the point of charge were heard and on 23. 03. 2016, charges u/s 5(m) of POCSO Act 2012 (hereinafter referred to as the "Act"), punishable u/s 6 of Act and u/s 11(ii) of the Act punishable u/s 12 of the Act, were framed against the accused, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.
3. In order to prove the charges against the accused, prosecution examined as many as 9 witnesses, whereafter the PE in the matter was closed and statement of accused u/s 313 Cr. P. C was recorded, wherein he claimed himself to be innocent and having been falsely implicated in the case by the mother of the child victim, at the instance of landlord, who wanted to get his room vacated from Bahadur. Accused did not lead any evidence in his defence.

[case 178]
Ganesan vs State on 21 April, 2022. This Criminal Appeal has been filed to set aside the impugned order passed in Spl. S. C. No. 18 of 2017, dated 21. 04. 2022, on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under POCSO Act, 2012, Srivilliputhur, Virudhunagar District and acquit the appellant in connection with Crime No. 1 of 2017, on the file of the respondent police. The appellant, who is the sole accused in Spl. S. C. No. 18 of 2017 on the file of the Special Court for POCSO Act cases, Srivilliputhur, filed this criminal appeal challenging the conviction and sentence imposed against him by the Special Court for POCSO Act Cases, Srivilliputhur. The learned trial Judge convicted the appellant for the offence under Section 450 of IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act 2012 and sentenced him to undergo 7 years imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 1000/- and in default of fine, to undergo 6 months of imprisonment. According to the prosecution, the appellant is aged about 24 years, residing at Karuppasamy Temple Street, Ameerpalayam Village, SatturTaluk, Virudhunagar District. On 23. 01. 2017, at about 01. 00 a. m, when the victim girl was going to attend nature's call, the appellant gagged her mouth and committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault. At that time, the mother of the victim girl intervened and made valiant attempt to save her daughter from the clutches of the accused. However, the accused escaped from the scene of the occurrence. Thereafter, the victim girl gave the complaint to the jurisdictional police and the complaint was received by P. W. 17. Thereafter FIR was rregistered by him. The FIR was transmitted to P. W. 18/investigating officer. The investigating officer, after receiving the FIR, conducted an investigation by arresting the accused and producing the victim girl for recording the statement under Section 164 Cr. P. C. He also sent her for the medical examination and collected all the medical reports and filed the final report before the court below for the alleged offence under section 5(l) r/w 6 of the POCSO Act. The same was taken on file in Spl. S. C. No. 18 of 2017. Thereafter, the offence was altered into 450 IPC and 6 r/w 5(i) of the POCSO Act. Thereafter, the respondent police arrested the appellant and completed the investigation and filed the final report before the learned trial Judge. The learned trial Judge took the final report on file in Spl. S. C. No. 18 of 2017. The learned trial Judge issued summons to the accused. After his appearance, the trial Judge served the copies under Section 207 Cr. P. C. Thereafter, he framed necessary charges and questioned the accused. The accused pleaded not guilty and hence the trial was commenced against the accused. To prove the case, the prosecution examined PW. 1 to PW. 18 and Ex. P1 to Ex. P14. ..

[case 179]
It is submitted by the learned counsel for the applicant that applicant has been falsely implicated in the present case. It is further submitted that applicant was working as child labour without any payment and on being asked for payment, he has been falsely implicated. It is next submitted that applicant is aged about 20 years which can be verified from the High School Certificate and Adhar Card of the applicant, which are part of case diary. Applicant has no criminal history and he is in jail since 01. 11. 2020, undertakes that he will not misuse the liberty, if granted.
Learned A. G. A. has vehemently opposed the prayer but could not dispute the aforesaid facts.
Considering the material on record as well as the dictum of Apex Court in the case of Dataram Singh Vs. State of U. P. and another, reported in (2018) 3 SCC 22, larger mandate of Article 21 of the constitution of India, without expressing any opinion on the merit of the case, let the applicant- Akash, involved in Case Crime No. 448 of 2020, under Sections- 452, 354 (KH), 323, 506 I. P. C. and 7/8 POCSO Act, Police Station- Bhojpur, District Ghaziabad, be enlarged on bail on his executing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned.
This bail order would be subject to the fulfilment of the following conditions:
1. The applicant shall not tamper with the prosecution evidence by intimidating/pressurizing the witnesses, during the investigation or trial.
2. The applicant shall cooperate in the trial sincerely without seeking any adjournment.
3. The applicant shall not indulge in any criminal activity or commission of any crime after being released on bail.
4. The applicant shall remain present before the trial court on each date fixed, either personally or through his counsel. In case of his absence, without sufficient cause, the trial court may proceed against him under Section 229-A of the Indian Penal Code;
5. If in the opinion of the trial court default of this condition is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the trial court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of his bail and proceed against him in accordance with law.
6. In case the applicant has been enlarged on short term bail as per the order of committee constituted under the orders of Hon'ble Supreme Court, his bail shall be effective after the period of short term bail comes to an end.
In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail.

[case 180]
At the outset, we are inclined to allow Interim Application No. 187 of 2021, which is an application filed by parents of the victim i. e. a minor girl of special needs, who is alleged to have suffered sexual assault and rape, in the context of which the present writ petition is filed by the petitioner. The said application is allowed and learned counsel appearing for the intervenors is also heard in the present writ petition. Rule. Rule made returnable forthwith. With the consent of learned counsel appearing for the parties, heard finally. The petitioner, who claims to be a social activist, has filed the present petition seeking direction to respondent No. 3 police station to register offences under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code ("IPC") and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ("POCSO") against accused person for the alleged rape of a minor girl of special needs and to conduct DNA tests to ascertain the truth. The petitioner claims that the concerned police officer did not take appropriate action in respect of registration of offence pertaining to such an incident of sexual assault on a minor girl and on the basis of the same, he seeks a direction to respondent Nos. 2 to 4 to act against the police officer responsible for failure in registering an offence. The petitioner has specifically stated in the writ petition that he was informed by two villagers that the aforesaid heinous incident of rape of minor girl, who is a special needs child, had taken place and that the accused were still at large. According to the petitioner, he was informed that the person responsible for the said act was the son of an influential person and that no FIR was lodged due to the fact that the family of the minor was put under pressure and coercion. The petitioner claims that he was told that the minor girl was aged 17 years and 6 months at the time of the incident and that she was now about 6 months pregnant because of the said sexual assault. Thereafter, it is claimed by the petitioner that he approached the Respondent police station on 11. 08. 2020 and demanded that a FIR be registered but no prompt action was taken in that regard. The petitioner then claims that he met the victim and her family and further that the victim was sent to respondent No. 5 Sanstha. According to the petitioner, despite respondent No. 5 Sanstha sending a letter to the police station, no action was taken for registration of FIR. The petitioner has then narrated further attempts made for registration of FIR and for conducting DNA tests in order to nail the accused and it is claimed that despite such attempts made on his part, the police took no action in the matter. It is in this backdrop that the petitioner has filed the present writ petition for the aforementioned prayers.

[case 181]
In the court of Ashwani Kumar Sarpal, Addl. Sessions Judge1 cum Presiding Officer of Special Court under POCSO Act, (East District), Karkardooma Courts, Delhi. FIR NO. 73/12 PSGokal Puri U/S363/376 (2)/323/ 354/366A/377/367/ 120B/34 IPC STATE VS. SADDAM & PARVEJ (SC 28/2013) JUDGMENT:  It has been confirmed through the medical reports called by the court during trial that both the accused are deaf and dumb. During proceeding of this case, help of expert in sign language/interpretation was taken especially at the stage of framing charge and recording of statement of accused persons u/s 313 Cr. P. C. Record shows that during investigation and trial, accused Saddam remained in custody from 1232012 to 13112013 whereas accused Parvej remained in custody from 932012 to 13112013. The case of the accused persons was conducted by their own private counsel. On the basis of the prosecution allegations, the charge for offences under section 120B, 363 read with 120B, 366A read with 120B, 376(2)(g), 377 and 323 read with 120B IPC was framed against the accused persons to which they pleaded not guilty. They even in their statements recorded u/s 313 Cr. P. C. described themselves as innocent persons and denied committing any offence. My. Ld. Predecessor vide order dated 332015 had also granted interim compensation of Rs. 50, 000/ to the victim. PROSECUTION ALLEGATIONS:  Victim, a girl child was aged about 5 years only at the time of incident and her identity is not disclosed herewith. Abdul Gaffar, maternal uncle of the victim lodged complaint with the police on 932012 at 9 a. m. with the averments that victim along with her mother had come to his house on 832012 at 5 p. m. While playing outside of the house in the evening, she went missing and they searched her for the whole night. When, complainant Abdul Gaffar during search reached near Aksha Masjid, Johripur Nala at about 5. 45 a. m. on 932012, then he saw victim coming with a person who run away after seeing him. It is also mentioned in the complaint, that person who had run away is a dumb person and was seen earlier by the complainant roaming in the area and is residing somewhere in the locality of Shiv Vihar. Complainant made inquiries from the victim who stated while weeping that the dumb person had committed a wrong act with her. Complainant brought the victim to his house and called the police at number 100. PCR came and took the victim to GTB hospital where her treatment started. IO ASI Devraj on receipt of DD no. 6A regarding the incident reached hospital along with Ct. Deepak and collected MLC of the victim but she was not fit to give any statement. Thereafter, on the basis of the complaint of Abdul Gaffar, IO got the case registered. ..

[case 182]
Santosh Kumar & Another vs State Of H. P. & Another on 31 March, 2023
The present petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been filed by the petitioners, with a request to quash FIR No. 87, dated 20. 09. 2020, registered under Sections 363 and 376 of Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, with Police Station Reckong Peo, District Kinnaur H. P. , alongwith the consequential proceedings thereto i. e. criminal case, titled as State versus Santosh Kumar, pending adjudication in the Court of learned Special Judge, Kinnaur at Rampur, District Shimla, H. P. The quashing of FIR has been sought on the basis of compromise between the parties. Interestingly, the petition has jointly been filed by the petitioners, who is accused (petitioner No. 1) as well as the child victim (petitioner No. 2) in the said case. The case set-up by the petitioners, in the petition, is that respondents No. 2 had lodged the FIR in question, with Police Station Reckong Peo, District Kinnaur, H. P. , alleging therein that the child victim (petitioner No. 2) had gone out from the house on 19. 09. 2020 in order to appear in the 10th class examination, but did not return and then efforts to trace her were made. On 20. 09. 2020, petitioner No. 2 (child victim) came back home and later on, it was transpired that the petitioner No. 1 allegedly took her to Rampur under the pretext of marriage and thereafter, dropped her at home on 20. 09. 2020. On the basis of the above facts, the police registered the FIR and criminal machinery swung into motion. After the completion of the investigation, the police filed the final report, under Section 173 (2) Cr. P. C. , disclosing therein that during the investigation, accused took the child victim (petitioner No. 2) for solemnization of marriage and they stayed in hotel, upon which, the child victim was taken to the doctor, for her medical examination. The child victim made a statement to the police that the accused had ravished her on the pretext of marriage, upon which, provisions of Section 376 IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act, were added, in this case. It is the further case of the petitioners that during the pendency of the proceedings before the trial Court, a compromise has been effected between petitioner No. 1 and complainant i. e. respondent No. 2 and petitioners have married with each other and out of the said wedlock, two children have born out. The petitioners are before this Court, in a petition, under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. , for quashing of FIR, as well as, the proceedings resultant thereto, on the basis of the marriage of petitioner No. 1 with petitioner No. 2, as well as, the compromise, which had allegedly taken place between petitioner No. 1 and respondent No. 2-complainant.

[case 183]
By way of the present matrimonial appeal, the appellant seeks to challenge an order dated 16. 11. 2018 passed by the Learned Family Court, whereby the Learned Family Court has directed that the custody arrangement of the 11 years old daughter of the parties would continue as decided by the earlier order dated 28. 07. 2018 wherein the interim custody of the child is to remain with the father for four days and with the mother for three days. The relevant and necessary facts for the adjudication of the present appeal are that from the wedlock of the parties a girl child was born in the year 2007 and she is presently a little over 11 years of age. Marital discord occurred in between the parties and the respondent (father) filed a Guardianship Petition bearing No. G. P. No. 2266/2018, seeking custody of the minor child on the ground that the petitioner herein was suffering from mental illness and treated the child with cruelty and did not permit the respondent to meet the child. The Learned Family Court vide order dated 13. 07. 2018 directed the appellant (mother) herein to remain present with the minor child on 18. 07. 2018. On 18. 07. 2018, the appellant did not appear nor was the minor child produced. An application for adjournment was filed on behalf of the appellant on the ground of illness of the child. A prayer was also made in the application for appointment of a counsellor/Child Specialist, to visit the residence of the appellant to counsel the child. Prayer for providing Protection to the female child was also made. On the said date, the respondent, brought to the notice of the learned Family Court that after the respondent had filed the guardianship petition, the appellant had filed a case against him under the POCSO Act. The Learned Family Court looking into the facts and circumstances of the case, perceived that the child was perhaps under pressure and therefore before forming any opinion, thought it fit to appoint a Counsellor to meet the child and submit a report as to the factual condition of the child. The Counsellor submitted his report, after interacting with the child, in the presence of two female Sub-Inspectors. In his report, he brought out that the child did not complain of any bad behavior towards her by the father and in fact expressed a desire to stay with the father only. He also reported that the child was confident and was speaking without fear. On 19. 07. 2018, the child was produced in the court from Nirmal Chhaya, where she was sent, keeping her best interest in mind, for one night on 18. 07. 2018. The Family Court has found that the child was happy in the company of the father and has repeatedly denied any misconduct towards her by the father.

[case 184]
Himanshu Gandhi vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 20 April, 2022. IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH AT JABALPUR BEFORE HON'BLE SMT. JUSTICE ANJULI PALO ON THE 20th OF APRIL, 2022. CRIMINAL REVISION No. 2527 of 2021 Between: - HIMANSHU GANDHI S/O SHRI ADARSH GANDHI, AGED ABOUT 21 YEARS, OCCUPATION: STUDENT R/O EM-25/302, IBD HALL MARK CITY, BHOPAL. .. .. APPLICANT (BY SHRI AJAY MISHRA, SENIOR COUNSEL ALONG WITH MR. ARPIT KUMAR TIWARI, ADVOCATE) AND 1. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH THR. P. S. KOLAR ROAD POLICE STATION KOLAR ROAD, BHOPAL (M. P. ) (MADHYA PRADESH) 2. VICTIM ''A'' D/O NOT MENTION NOT MENTION (MADHYA PRADESH). .. .. RESPONDENTS (RESPONDENT NO. 1 BY MS. GEETA YADAV, PANEL LAWYER) This revision coming on for hearing this day, the court passed the following: ORDER This revision has been filed under Section 397 read with Section 401 of the Code of Criminal Procedure challenging the order dated 23. 09. 2021 passed by learned 23rd Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 in ST No. 10/2021 whereby charges for offences punishable under Sections 354, 354-A (1) (i), 354-D and 504 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 9 (l)(m)/10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, have been framed against the applicant. 2. Learned Senior Counsel has challenged the impugned order framing charges on many grounds. The applicant and the prosecutrix are neighbours and there is enmity between the parties and the applicant had earlier made complaints against the mother of the prosecutrix due to neighbourhood disputes. It is contended, inter alia, that the mother of the minor prosecutrix deliberately refused for her medical examination. It is vehemently contended that there are no ingredients for framing charges under Sections 504, 354 and 354D of the IPC. Learned Senior Counsel has drawn the attention of this Court to Section 3 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and contends that no ingredients as provided in Section 3 of the Act which deals with the penetrative sexual assault, is available with the prosecution. The trial Court has committed error in law in framing charge under Section 504 of the IPC against the applicant because even in the charge-sheet offence under Section 504 of the IPC was not alleged. 3. Learned Panel Lawyer has vehemently opposed the contentions raised by learned Senior Counsel for the applicant by placing reliance on the decision of Hon'ble the Supreme Court in the case of Attorny General for India v. Satish and Another. 4. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. The allegation against the applicant is that he used to forcibly kiss on the lips of the prosecutrix who is aged about seven years and nine months.

[case 185]
Anmol Vikas Sharma vs The State Of Karnataka, on 15 February, 2017
This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of Cr. P. C. , seeking to allow this petition and enlarge the petitioner on bail in Special Case No. 49/2016 in connection with Crime No. 2/2016 registered in Torangallu Police Station, for the offences under Sections 376(2), 363 of IPC and Section 3, 4 of POCSO Act.
A person by name Ravindra Pal lodged a complaint stating that on 8. 12. 2015, her daughter aged 14 years, had been to the school i. e. , Jindal Adarsh School at Torangal, Sandur Taluk, Ballari District, but she did not return home. On enquiry, the complainant came to know that the petitioner had abducted the victim girl without the permission of the guardian. The said information was given by none other than the brother of the petitioner and he assured the complainant not to lodge any complaint so that he will bring back the said girl. During the course of the investigation, the police have recorded the statement of the victim girl on 09. 01. 2016 wherein she has stated that the petitioner has persuaded her on the ground that her father always used to abuse her, he would look after her with all love and affection and that they can live happily together. On that persuasion, the said girl aged 14 years was kidnapped by him. In her statement she has stated that the petitioner had sexual intercourse with her and also threatened her with dire consequences that, if she disclose the same to anybody, he would kill her. Thereafter, he took her to his village in Uttar Pradesh and they stayed there for 15 days and, thereafter, it appears she was brought back to her house. Looking to the above said facts and circumstances, whether there was any sexual intercourse or not has to be considered by the Court. However the statement of the victim girl made before the police is very much available which is consistent with the statement given under Section 164 of Cr. P. C. with regard to kidnapping the victim girl aged 14 years. I can understand, about the consent, if the girl is on the verge of attaining the age of majority who knows the pros and cons of the act. But, here, the said girl is aged 14 years. The persuasion is apparent on the face of the record. If such situations are allowed to be continued, there would be no safety or security to the girl child in our country. Under the above said circumstances, I am of the opinion that the petitioner, at this stage, is not entitled to be enlarged on bail. The petition deserves to be dismissed. However, since the accused is in judicial custody for more than one year, the Trial Court is hereby directed to expedite the trial and dispose of the matter within six months from the date of receipt of a copy of this order.

[case 186]
FIR No. 741/14: State vs Kapil Singh: PS Aman Vihar on 9 December, 2015. IN THE COURT OF VINOD YADAV: ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE: (NORTHWEST)01: ROHINI DISTRICT COURTS: DELHI (Sessions Case No. 170/14) Unique ID case No. 02404R0276362014 State Vs. Kapil Singh FIR No. : 741/14 U/s: 354D IPC and 12 of POCSO Act P. S. : Aman Vihar State Vs. Kapil Singh S/o Sh. Satbir Singh R/o A38, Gali no. 4, Agar Nagar, Prem NagarIII, Delhi. Date of institution of case 02. 09. 2014 Date of arguments: 09. 12. 2015 Date of pronouncement of judgment:  09. 12. 2015 JUDGMENT (ORAL): The facts of the case as borne out from the record are that on 13. 07. 2014, on entrustment of DD no. 11, PW7 ASI Naresh Kumar reached at the spot, where complainant I (hereinafter referred to as prosecutrix), aged about 17 years and her mother met him and on coming to know from complainant's mother that it was a matter of chedchad with prosecutrix, he called L/Ct. Seema and NGO official Shashi Sharma and thereafter, they made inquiries from the prosecutrix and recorded her statement in the presence of her mother and in the said statement, the prosecutrix stated that accused Kapil, a resident of her locality, had been harassing her by following her repeatedly and earlier also, the matter was reported to the police and he was warned to be careful, but to no avail. She further stated that she had told about it to her mother and thereafter, her parents had gone to the house of accused to talk to his parents and to make him understand, but again to no avail. She further stated that on 13. 07. 2014, at about 8. 00 pm, accused made to and fro trips on his motorcycle at a fast speed in front of her house again and again and on seeing this, her father caught hold of him and beat him, on which, accused threatened her and her father of dire consequences and feeling apprehension, the matter was reported to the police and she requested for legal action against the accused. On the basis of the aforesaid statement made by the prosecutrix, the present case FIR was registered. Prosecutrix was medically examined and site plan of the place of incident was prepared. Statement of mother of the prosecutrix was also recorded. Statement of prosecutrix u/s 164 Cr. P. C was got recorded. The accused was arrested. Age proof of the prosecutrix was also collected and after concluding the investigation, charge sheet in the matter was filed. 2. After filing of the charge sheet in the matter, the copy thereof was supplied to the accused. On 17. 11. 2014, charge u/s 11 (iv) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as the "Act"), punishable u/s 12 of Act, alternatively u/s 354D, was framed against the accused, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

[case 187]
Kerala High Court Vinodan vs State Of Kerala on 30 June, 2020 Author: P. B. Suresh Kumar Bench: P. B. Suresh Kumar IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. B. SURESH KUMAR TUESDAY, THE 30TH DAY OF JUNE 2020 / 9TH ASHADHA, 1942 CRL. A. No. 1477 OF 2019 AGAINST THE JUDGMENT IN SC 751/2016 DATED 20-11-2019 OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS COURT, KOZHIKODE CRIME NO. 174/2016 OF Meppayur Police Station, Kozhikode APPELLANT/ACCUSED: VINODAN, AGED 43 YEARS, S/O. KANNAN, MARUTHERIPARAMBATHU, NARAKKODE, KEEZHARIYOOR (P. O. ), PIN - 673 307, KOZHIKODE. BY ADVS. SRI. SANTHARAM. P SMT. REKHA ARAVIND SRI. PAUL P. ABRAHAM RESPONDENT/COMPLAINANT: STATE OF KERALA, REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM - 682 031. BY SMT. PUSHPALATHA M. K. , SR. PUBLIC PROSECUTOR THIS CRIMINAL APPEAL HAVING BEEN FINALLY HEARD ON 30-06-2020, THE COURT ON 30-06-2020 DELIVERED THE FOLLOWING: Criminal Appeal No. 1477 of 2019 2 P. B. SURESH KUMAR, J. ---------------------------------------------- Criminal Appeal No. 1477 of 2019 ------------------------------------------------------ Dated this the 30th day of June, 2020 JUDGMENT The first accused in S. C. No. 751 of 2016 on the files of the Additional Sessions Court, Kozhikode has come up in this appeal challenging his conviction and sentence in the said case. 2. The second accused in the case was absconding and as such, he was not tried. The third accused in the case is a 'child in conflict with law' (the child) in terms of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and the enquiry against him under the said statute is stated to be pending. 3. The victim in the case is a minor boy. The accusation in the case is that on 18. 05. 2016, at about 19. 30 hours, the second accused and the child took the victim boy to the premises of a school where the first accused has committed penetrative sexual assault on him with the active assistance of the child and the second accused. The offences alleged are the offences punishable under Section 3(d) read with Section 4 and Section 5(g) read with Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (the POCSO Act). 4. On the appellant pleading not guilty of the charges, the prosecution examined 11 witnesses as PW1 to PW11 and proved Exts. P1 to P17 documents. The appellant was, thereupon, questioned under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (the Code) as regards the incriminating evidence brought out by the prosecution. The appellant denied the same and maintained that he is innocent. Since the trial court did not consider the case to be one fit for acquittal under Section 232 of the Code, the appellant was called upon to enter on his defence. The appellant did not adduce any evidence.

[case 188]
Rupi Babbar vs State Nct Of Delhi on 11 September, 2024 IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI % Reserved on: 30th July, 2024 Pronounced on: 11th September, 2024 + CRL. M. C. 5329/2024 & CRL. M. A. 20393/2024 RUPI BABBAR. .. .. Petitioner Through: Mr. Kapil Madan, Mr. Gurmukh Singh Arora & Mr. Vansh Bajaj, Advs. versus STATE NCT OF DELHI. .. .. Respondent Through: Mr. Pradeep Gahalot, APP for the State with Ms. Prachi Bahl, Mr. Varun Gupta, Ms. Ritu Sharma & Mr. Gaurav Kaushik, Advs with SI Meena Malik, PS Maurya Enclave. CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE ANISH DAYAL JUDGMENT ANISH DAYAL, J. 1. This petition has been filed under Section 482, Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ["CrPC"] assailing order dated 02nd May 2024 ["impugned order"], passed by Additional Sessions Judge-01 (POCSO), North West/Rohini ["Ld. ASJ"], in case arising out of FIR No. 515/2021, registered at Police Station ["PS"] Maurya Enclave. By way of the impugned order, Ld. ASJ inter alia framed charges against the petitioner under Section 19(1) POCSO punishable under Section 21 POCSO. 2. The FIR was registered basis the complaint of the complainant/prosecutrix (daughter of the petitioner herein) who, at the time of the alleged offence, was a minor girl aged 16 years. The FIR was registered under Sections 354, 354A, 377, 323, and 376 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ["IPC"] and Sections 6 and 10 of the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ["POCSO"]. 3. On an application dated 22nd August 2022 moved by counsel for accused, the mother of the prosecutrix i. e. petitioner Rupi Babbar was summoned to the Trial Court whereafter the impugned order was passed, framing charges under Section 21, POCSO against her for failure to report offences against her daughter/prosecutrix. Allegations in the FIR 4. Prosecutrix had alleged that she was residing along with her mother, the petitioner herein, at a rented house since March 2021, prior to that she was residing with her entire family at her grandparents' house at Pitampura, Delhi. 5. When prosecutrix was in 7th class, her father ["accused"] touched her in an inappropriate manner; followed her to the bathroom, closed the door from outside, and opened it after half an hour so that she would not complain about him. Once when she was going to washroom; her father held her from behind, touched her private parts and tried to insert his finger. She also alleged that her father had shown pornography to her on his mobile phone. Inappropriate behaviour of the accused continued. She told her mother about the incident, then a quarrel took place between her parents. Later, she alleged that she was sexually assaulted by her father on several occasions and was also beaten by her father.

[case 189]
Himanshu Gandhi vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 20 April, 2022. IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH AT JABALPUR BEFORE HON'BLE SMT. JUSTICE ANJULI PALO ON THE 20th OF APRIL, 2022. CRIMINAL REVISION No. 2527 of 2021 Between: - HIMANSHU GANDHI S/O SHRI ADARSH GANDHI, AGED ABOUT 21 YEARS, OCCUPATION: STUDENT R/O EM-25/302, IBD HALL MARK CITY, BHOPAL. .. .. APPLICANT (BY SHRI AJAY MISHRA, SENIOR COUNSEL ALONG WITH MR. ARPIT KUMAR TIWARI, ADVOCATE) AND 1. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH THR. P. S. KOLAR ROAD POLICE STATION KOLAR ROAD, BHOPAL (M. P. ) (MADHYA PRADESH) 2. VICTIM ''A'' D/O NOT MENTION NOT MENTION (MADHYA PRADESH). .. .. RESPONDENTS (RESPONDENT NO. 1 BY MS. GEETA YADAV, PANEL LAWYER) This revision coming on for hearing this day, the court passed the following: ORDER This revision has been filed under Section 397 read with Section 401 of the Code of Criminal Procedure challenging the order dated 23. 09. 2021 passed by learned 23rd Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 in ST No. 10/2021 whereby charges for offences punishable under Sections 354, 354-A (1) (i), 354-D and 504 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 9 (l)(m)/10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, have been framed against the applicant. 2. Learned Senior Counsel has challenged the impugned order framing charges on many grounds. The applicant and the prosecutrix are neighbours and there is enmity between the parties and the applicant had earlier made complaints against the mother of the prosecutrix due to neighbourhood disputes. It is contended, inter alia, that the mother of the minor prosecutrix deliberately refused for her medical examination. It is vehemently contended that there are no ingredients for framing charges under Sections 504, 354 and 354D of the IPC. Learned Senior Counsel has drawn the attention of this Court to Section 3 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and contends that no ingredients as provided in Section 3 of the Act which deals with the penetrative sexual assault, is available with the prosecution. The trial Court has committed error in law in framing charge under Section 504 of the IPC against the applicant because even in the charge-sheet offence under Section 504 of the IPC was not alleged. 3. Learned Panel Lawyer has vehemently opposed the contentions raised by learned Senior Counsel for the applicant by placing reliance on the decision of Hon'ble the Supreme Court. 4. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. The allegation against the applicant is that he used to forcibly kiss on the lips of the prosecutrix who is aged about seven years and nine months.

[case 190]
Both these petitions encompass common question(s) of law, besides encompassing common prayer(s), therefore, they are amenable for being decided through a common verdict. For the sake of convenience, the facts are being extracted from CRM-M-5650-2022. The gravamen of the lis, as encapsulated in the instant petition, is centered upon the validity of the impugned orders dated 19. 02. 2021, which are enclosed with the instant petition respectively as Annexures P1 to P4, and whereby, the sanction for prosecution of the respondents No. 5 to 8, in Case No. RC 08(S)/2017/SC-III/CBI/New Delhi dated 22. 09. 2017, as sought by the C. B. I. under Section 197 Cr. P. C. , has been declined by the respondent No. 1-State of Haryana. Succinctly stated, the present case derives its origin from the infamous incident of Ryan International School, Gurugram, wherein, a student of 2nd class [a seven year old boy] [hereinafter referred to as the 'minor deceased'] was found murdered in the school premises. Initially, the investigation was conducted by the Haryana Police and they arrested one Ashok Kumar [a Conductor employed in the School Bus at the relevant time] as the accused behind the murder. Since there was a lot of hue and cry and the matter was highlighted throughout media, and, even the father of the minor deceased approached the Hon'ble Supreme Court for transfer of investigation, therefore, the State of Haryana issued a gazette notification, thus transferring the investigation of this case to the C. B. I. The investigation of the C. B. I. culminated in a juvenile student of the same school, namely, Bholu [imaginary name given by the trial Court to conceal the identity of the juvenile student] [hereinafter referred to as the 'C. C. L. '] being the sole culprit behind murder of the minor deceased. Moreover, post conducting a through investigation, the C. B. I. also reached a conclusion that, in fact, Ashok Kumar was falsely framed in the murder and he is totally innocent. The further shocking revelations, as emerged from the investigation conducted by the C. B. I. are that, the Special Investigation Team [constituted by Commissioner of Police, Gurugram] not only created false documents, but, also pressurized the material witnesses to depose against Ashok Kumar. Consequently, a supplementary report was filed by the C. B. I. , thereby requesting to accord sanction under Section 197 Cr. P. C. for prosecution of some of the members of the Special Investigation Team [i. e. respondents No. 5 to 8]. This request was declined by the respondent No. 1 through rendering the impugned orders. Therefore, fetching grievance from the impugned orders, the C. B. I. has instituted the instant petition(s).

[case 191]
Ashok Ramchandra Shewale vs The State Of Maharashtra on 30 March, 2021. On 19th April 2019, a complaint was lodged at N. M. Joshi Marg Police Station by the mother of a child, aged 13 years 6 months, reporting about sexual assault upon her special child. It is alleged by her that on 19th April 2019, her another daughter informed that when the victim girl had gone to the toilet on the first floor of a building in a chawl, on 17th April 2019 at 9. 00 p. m, the Applicant - a resident of the same building latched the door from inside and sexually abused her. When the victim girl was taken into confidence, she narrated that after the applicant entered into the toilet and he latched the door, she was kissed by him on her lips and he also inappropriately touched her chest and her private part. He also threatened that if she informed about the said incident, she would have to meet with dire consequences. Thereafter, he opened the door of the toilet and left her. Based on the said narration, the complainant approached the police station on 19th April 2019 about the incident which took place on 17th April 2019 and lodged the FIR. The victim was forwarded for medical examination and was examined on 20th April 2019 after obtaining her consent. The history of the sexual assault narrated by the victim's mother is in sync with what she had disclosed to her mother about the applicant forcibly kissing her and fondling her breast. It is categorically recorded that she did not report any sexual intercourse. The child was medically examined and the opinion in column no. 11 recorded as multiple old healed hymenal tears. The statement of the victim girl was also recorded on 22nd April 2019. Based on the complaint, the FIR was registered under Section 354, 342, 506 read with Sections 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act). When the charge-sheet is filed, Section 376 is also added. In absence of an allegation of 'rape' within the meaning of Section 375, prima facie the charge against the applicant under Section 376 cannot be justified. The medical examination of the victim girl which took place on the third day after the incident indicates 'multiple old healed hymenal tears'. However, neither the victim girl nor her mother had spoken about any penetration into her vagina or insertion of any object other than the penis. The version of the victim girl is only that of inappropriate touching without any reference to penetration. The applicant is arrested and incarcerated since 19th April 2019, and although the charge-sheet charges him with rapes, the trial Court is to determine the validity of this charge.

[case 192]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V TUESDAY, THE 31ST DAY OF JULY 2018 / 9TH SRAVANA, 1940 Bail Appl. No. 4855 of 2018 CRIME NO. 339/2018 OF VIDYA NAGAR POLICE STATION, KASARGOD PETITIONER/ACCUSED ABDULLA SAHAD, S/O. MOIDEEN, AGED 19 YEARS, NIHAL APARTMENT, NAINMARMOOOLA, CHENGALA, VIDYANAGAR, KASARAGOD. BY ADVS. SRI. I. V. PRAMOD SRI. K. V. SASIDHARAN RESPONDENT/COMPLAINANT/STATE: STATE OF KERALA, REPRESENTED BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM, KOCHI - 682 031. BY SRI. C. N. PRABHAKARAN, SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 31-07-2018, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: NAB-31. 07. 2018 RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V, J. B. A. No. 4855 of 2018 Dated this the 31st day of July, 2018 ORDER This application is filed under Section 438 of the Cr. P. C. The applicant herein is the accused in Crime No. 339 of 2018 registered at the Vidyanagar Police Station, under Sections 342 & 363 of the IPC and under Sections 7 & 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The survivor is a girl aged 15 years. The applicant is alleged to be a near relative of a friend of the victim girl. It is alleged that the victim was informed by the applicant herein that her friend was with him and she was invited to the apartment of the applicant. She reached the apartment at about 9. 45 AM on 26. 06. 2018. She was wrongfully confined in the apartment till 4 P. M. and she was not permitted to leave. It is alleged that during the period that the minor child was with the applicant herein, he subjected the victim to sexual abuse by embracing and kissing her. The learned counsel appearing for the applicant submits that he is innocent. According to the learned counsel, even if it is admitted that the allegations are true, the offence under the POCSO Act will not be attracted as the act was not committed with sexual intent. The learned Public Prosecutor points out that the victim was just 15 years of old and she was confined illegally and was subjected to sexual abuse by the applicant herein. I have considered the submissions advanced and have gone through the case diary. Prima facie, there are materials pointing to the involvement of the applicant. The allegations are grave. I am not persuaded to exercise the discretionary powers and grant an order of anticipatory bail to the applicant. The applicant is directed to surrender before the court below and seek regular bail. If an application for bail is preferred, the same shall be considered and order shall be passed expeditiously and on its merits. This application will stand dismissed.

[case 193]
Prabhat Thru. His Father Shri Hanoman. .. vs State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Home. .. on 17 May, 2023, HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH, 1. Heard Sri Samrat, learned counsel for the revisionist, Sri Ravindra Kumar holding brief of Sri Vijayendra Prakash Tripathi, learned counsel for opposite party no. 2 as well as Shri Alok Sarn, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the entire record. 2. At the outset, learned counsel for the revisionist seeks and is granted permission to amend the description of juvenile in a manner which does not disclose the identity of the juvenile during the course of the day. 3. Prayer made for is allowed. 4. Let necessary corrections/amendments be incorporated during the course of the day. 5. The instant revision is filed with prayer to assail the impugned order dated 30. 07. 2022 passed by Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge, POCSO, Court No. 2, Lucknow, under section 302, 201, I. P. C. Police Station: Chinhat, District: Lucknow, passed in Criminal Appeal No. 113 of 2022 arising out of Case Crime No. 107 of 2022, arising out of F. I. R. No. 1016 of 2021, lodged under section 302 I. P. C. at Police Station: Chinhat, District: Lucknow. 6. It has been submitted by learned counsel for the revisionist that the innocent revisionist has falsely been implicated in the present case. The revisionist hails from a family who have no criminal history. His further submission is that both the courts below have been swayed by the alleged seriousness of the offence, whereas for the purposes of enlarging the revisionist on bail under proviso to Section 12(1) of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as Act of 2015) is significant, which has been overlooked by the court below, therefore, impugned judgment and orders dated 06. 06. 2022 & 30. 07. 2022 are not sustainable in the eyes of law. He has also submitted that no adverse report against the present revisionist has been given by the District Probation Officer concerned and whatever has been mentioned in the social investigation report against the present revisionist, is not based on any cogent material. He has further submitted that revisionist is confined in the Children Reformatory Home since 07. 04. 2022 in connection with the present crime. Only three years' institutional incarceration is permissible for a juvenile, under Section 18(1)(g) Act of 2015. He has also drawn attention of this Court towards the fact that the co-accused who was major has also been granted bail by a co-ordinate Bench of this Court by means of order dated 24. 03. 2023 passed in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No. 4088 of 2023.

[case 194]
Shivlal vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 12 June, 2023. This is the first application filed by the applicant under Section 439 of the Cr. P. C. for grant of regular bail relating to FIR No. 228/2022 dated 24. 12. 2022 of P. S. Kindrai, District-Seoni (M. P. ) for commission of offence under Sections 363, 366, 294, 506 of the IPC and Section 3, 4, 5l, 6 of POCSO Act, 2012. He is in detention since 05. 02. 2023. As per the prosecution story, on 24. 12. 2022, 17 years old prosecutrix lodged an FIR stating that in October, 2021, one Devlal had proposed her for marriage. They both had talks on phone. On 04. 03. 2022, on false promise of marriage, Devlal had committed rape upon her. Thereafter, he repeatedly committed rape upon her. In the meantime, she had conceived from him. Now Devlal has refused to marry with her. FIR was registered. Later it was stated by the prosecutrix that present applicant, who is brother of Devlal, had uttered filthy words and had threatened to do death. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that applicant has not committed any offence. He is innocent. He has been falsely implicated only because he is elder brother of the main accused Devlal. He had not abused prosecutrix nor had asked her or her parents to abort her child. He never extended any threat to prosecutrix. It is submitted that in her earlier statement under Section 161 of Cr. P. C. , prosecutrix had stated nothing against the present applicant. Later on, by supplementary statement, he has been falsely implicated. There is no allegation against present applicant constituting offence of rape/aggravated penetrative sexual assault. Applicant has no criminal background. Therefore, it has been prayed that applicant be released on bail. Looking to the facts and circumstances of the case and totality of allegation against the present applicant, I am of the view that it is a case in which further pretrial detention of the applicant/accused is not warranted. Consequently, this first bail application under Section 439 of the Cr. P. C. filed on behalf of applicant, stands allowed. It is directed that applicant-Shivlal be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs. 50, 000/- (Rupees Fifty thousand only) with one solvent surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial Court, for his regular appearance before the trial Court during trial with a condition that he shall remain present before the concerned Court on all the dates fixed by it during trial. This order shall be effective till the end of the trial. However, in case of bail jump and breach of any of the conditions of bail, it shall become ineffective.

[case 195]
State By Hebbal Police vs Puneeth on 22 December, 2015. IN THE COURT OF THE LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE AT BANGALORE CITY. Present: SMT. VIJAYALAXMI S. UPANAL, M. A. , LL. M. , LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE, BANGLORE CITY. Spl. C. C. No. 463/2014 COMPLAINANT State by Hebbal Police, Bangalore City. (By Learned Public Prosecutor) -Vs - ACCUSED Puneeth, S/o. Late Umesh, 22yrs, - R/at. 3rd Cross, B-Narayanapura, Mahadevapura, Bangalore-48. (By Sri. T. D-Advocate. ) 1. Date of commission of offence 15-07-2014 2. Date of report of occurrence 24-07-2014 3. Date of arrest of Accused 26-07-2014 Date of release of Accused 27-12-2014 Period undergone in custody by Accused 05 months & 1 day. 4. Date of commencement of evidence 10-06-2015 5. Date of closing of evidence 18-09-2015 6. Name of the complainant Shashikala 7. Offences complained of Sections 366-A, 376 of IPC & Section 5(l) r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act-2012. 8. Opinion of the Judge Accused found not guilty. 9. Order of sentence As per the final order. JUDGMENT The Police Inspector, Hebbal Police Station, Bangalore has submitted charge sheet against the accused for the offences punishable under Section 363, 366, 376 of IPC and Section 5(l) read with Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 in Crime No. 177/2014. The brief facts of the prosecution case are as under: The accused was in love with Cw. 2-the minor victim girl, aged about 17 years. On 15-07-2014 the accused by inducing the victim minor girl kidnapped her from the custody of her lawful guardian, with an intention to compel her to marry him, kept her in his house and raped her forcibly and repeatedly. Hence, this charge sheet. On the basis of the complaint lodged by the Cw. 1 the case is registered in Cr. No. 177/2014 for the offences punishable under Section 363, 366, 376 of IPC and Section 5(l) read with Section 6 of POCSO Act. Pw. 6-N. Munirajaiah, A. S. I. , Hebbal Police Station has deposed on 25-07-2014 as per the direction issued by Cw. 17-Woman P. S. I. , himself and Cw. 14 had gone for search of accused and victim girl. They found the accused and victim girl, enquired them and confirmed they are related to this case. Pw. 11-the victim-girl has deposed that she was born on 17-08-1997. The victim-girl stated that she and the accused were in love, but the mother reported the incident which led to the complaint. After hearing both sides on the charge to be framed against the accused this Court has framed charge against the accused. The prosecution examined 14 witnesses, but ultimately, the prosecution failed to establish the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt, leading to the acquittal of the accused.

[case 196]
Fir No. 148/13: State vs Sunil @ Machhar: Ps Ashok Vihar Dod: .. . on 8 May, 2015
State Vs. Sunil @ Machhar
FIR No. : 148/13
U/s: 377 IPC & 4 of POCSO Act
The facts of the case as born out from the record are that in the night intervening 17/18th May 2013, at about 12. 00 am, child victim D, aged about 12 years and his brother Bhola went to Police Station Ashok Vihar reporting penetrative sexual assault committed upon child victim D (hereinafter referred to as child victim) by the accused in the night of 16. 05. 2013. The matter in the police station was assigned to SI Surender Singh (hereinafter referred to as IO). Considering the sensitivity of the matter, the IO took the child victim to BJRM Hospital for his medical examination. After getting him medically examined and obtaining the exhibits, collected by the doctor from the person of child victim, IO recorded the statement of child victim to the effect that the child victim resided along with his father and elder brother Sh. Raja Ram in a room on rent, in house no. WPX-81, Wazir Pur Jhuggie Cluster. The accused was residing in a nearby house. On 16. 05. 2013, at about 11. 00 pm, the child victim was alone in his house. The accused came to his house and took him to his house on the pretext of cleaning the roof of the house. After reaching the house of accused, he caught hold of the child victim and forcibly took off his clothes and forcibly inserted his penis into his anus. When the child victim tried to raise alarm, he strangulated him. After having anal sex with him, he took out his penis from the anus of the child victim and inserted the same into his mouth and asked him to lick the same. He continued the sexual harassment of the child victim for about one - one and a half hours. Thereafter, he left the child victim, who went to his house. Thereafter, on the next day, the child victim told all this to his elder brother namely Bhola, who took him to PS. After recording of the statement of the child victim, the IO got registered the FIR in the matter and he along with Ct. Amit, child victim and his brother Bhola went to the spot and prepared site plan of the place, where sexual assault with the child victim had taken place. The accused was arrested from his house. Thereafter, the MLC of the accused was got prepared in BJRM Hospital and the exhibits obtained from the person of the accused by the doctor were taken into police possession. The IO got the statement of the child victim recorded u/s 164 Cr. P. C. The charge sheet in the matter was prepared by SI Ajay Kumar, after obtaining the FSL result. The same was filed in the court.

[case 197]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD Reserved on 01. 5. 2023 Delivered on 02. 05. 2023 HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD X. .Revisionist v/s State of U. P. And Another. .. Opposite Parties JUDGMENT HON'BLE SANJAY KUMAR PACHORI, J. 1. Heard Sri Pankaj Satsangi, learned counsel for the revisionist and Sri Saurabh Srivastava, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material available on record. No one has appeared on behalf of the opposite party no. 2, even in the revised call. 2. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his father under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as 'JJ Act, 2015') against the judgment dated 20. 11. 2020 passed by Additional Sessions Judge/ Special Judge (POCSO) Act, Court No. 42, Shahjahanpur in Criminal Appeal No. 48 of 2020, whereby the appellate court has rejected the Criminal appeal and affirmed the order dated 13. 10. 2020 passed by Juvenile Justice Board, Shahjahanpur. The Juvenile Justice Board has rejected the bail application of the revisionist, which has been filed by his natural guardian/father, under Section 12 of 'JJ Act, 2015' in Bail Application No. 51 of 2020 arising out of Case Crime No. 98 of 2020, under Sections 376-D, 342, 323, 308 of the Indian Penal Code (in short 'I. P. C. '), Police Station- Paraur, District- Shahjahanpur. 3. Learned counsel for the revisionist submitted that the revisionist was 14 years 9 months and 14 days old at the time of the incident as per educational certificate. The Juvenile Justice Board, Shahjahanpur has declared the revisionist as juvenile vide order dated 30. 09. 2020 and no proceeding is pending against the order. Learned counsel for the revisionist further submitted that the revisionist is innocent and has been falsely implicated in this case due to ulterior motive. It is further submitted that in the statement of victim recorded under Sections 161 and 164 Cr. P. C. and in second statement of the victim there are material contradictions and improvement. It is further submitted that the F. I. R. has been lodged after two days of the incident. As per the F. I. R. , the victim was 20 years old and was a married lady at the time of incident. Medical examination of the victim was conducted on 10. 04. 2020. As per supplementary medical report, no spermatozoa has been seen. As per allegation of the F. I. R, statement of the victim, victim being a married lady of neighbourhood she was locked in a room for two days by the accused persons. It is highly improbable that there is no missing report and complaint in this regard.

[case 198]
A (Minor) Through Her Mother vs State on 18 January, 2022. The present petition has been filed under Section 482 Cr. P. C. on behalf of the child victim 'A', through her mother, assailing the order dated 24. 04. 2021 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge-06, West, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi in FIR No. 394/2020 registered under Section 363 IPC at P. S. Mundka, Delhi. The present FIR came to be registered on a complaint given by the elder brother of the child victim, wherein it was stated that the child victim, who was aged about 12 years and 02 months, had gone missing and it was suspected that their neighbor had enticed her away. Subsequently, on 30. 03. 2021, the child victim was produced before the concerned Police Station by her brother and her medical examination was conducted at Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Mangol Puri, Delhi. At the hospital, the child victim underwent the Urine Pregnancy Test (hereinafter, referred to as the UPT) and the test came out to be positive. The statement of the child victim was recorded under Section 161 Cr. P. C. , wherein she stated that the accused, a neighbour, had forcibly established sexual relations with her and taken her to Bihar without her consent. On the basis of the same, Section 376 IPC and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter, referred to as the POCSO Act) were added to the case. Later, on 08. 04. 2021, statement of the child victim was recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C. , wherein she did not support the allegations levelled earlier in her statement recorded under Section 161 Cr. P. C. The charge sheet has been filed and charges already framed. The matter is stated to be listed for prosecution evidence. Ms. Supriya Juneja, learned counsel for the child victim, while assailing the impugned order, contends that the impugned order was passed in total contravention of the mandate of Section 33(8) of the POCSO Act and Rule 7 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Rules, 2012 (hereinafter, referred to as the POCSO Rules) (pari materia to Rule 9 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Rules, 2020. ) She further submits that during her medical examination, the UPT of the child victim was conducted and the same was found positive. It is also submitted that in the present case, Section 6 of the POCSO Act is involved and the child victim is yet to be examined in trial. Learned counsel informs that the child victim has also undergone medical termination of pregnancy and submits that in this backdrop, rejection of award of interim compensation was patently illegal.

[case 199]
Vikas Soni vs State Of U. P. & Another on 5 August, 2021. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH. Case: - CRIMINAL REVISION No. - 1461 of 2019. Revisionist: - Vikas Soni. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. & Another. Counsel for Revisionist: - Akhilesh Kumar Pandey. Counsel for Opposite Party: - Govt. Advocate. Hon'ble Mrs. Saroj Yadav, J. This criminal revision has been preferred by the juvenile Vikas Soni through his father, under Section 102 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act of 2015 against judgement and order dated 13. 9. 2019 passed by Special Judge, (POCSO Act), Pratapgarh in Criminal Appeal No. 51 of 2019 Vikas Soni Vs. State of U. P. and order dated 2. 7. 2019 passed by the learned Juvenile Justice Board, Pratapgarh in Bail Application No. 39 of 2019 arising out of Case Crime No. 31 of 2018 under Sections 41, 411, 413, 414, 401 of Indian Penal Code, Police Station Government Railway Police, Pratapgarh. The brief factual matrix necessary for disposal of this criminal revision are as under: On 10. 7. 2018, a First Information Report was registered at Crime No. 31 of 2018 at police Station G. R. P. , Pratapgarh under Sections 41, 411, 413, 414, 401 IPC on the basic of recovery memo prepared by Sub Inspector against the revisionist and three others. According to recovery memo, the revisionist alongwith three others was arrested on the information given by a fink at the railway station, Pratapgarh, making preparation to commit theft. A mobile Samsung Phone of golden colour was recovered. He confessed to having stolen the mobile from train 4-5 days back. It has also been mentioned in the recovery memo that he is a habitual thief and has committed thefts earlier also. Investigation started. Revisionist claimed juvenility and was so declared by the learned J. J. Board vide order dated 11. 6. 2019. His age was found 16 years. He moved bail application before the J. J. Board and the same was rejected. Against the order of JJ Board, an appeal was preferred under Section 101 of the Act of 2015, that too was rejected. The passage details of the legal arguments submitted by both sides and the court's consideration of these arguments. The Judge emphasized that the juvenile's release on bail should not lead him into association with criminal elements, and must ensure the juvenile's protection from further harm. Given the nature of Vikas Sonis circumstances and the Judges acknowledgment of the lack of adverse reports against him, what is the legal essence that upholds the juvenile's right to be released on bail despite the contention of habitual theft?

[case 200]
This petition has been filed to call for the records pertaining to the proceedings in Crime No. 17 of 2022 on the file of the respondent police and quash the same. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the petitioner/A2 is the father in-law of the defacto complainant/second respondent. The second respondent/defacto complainant who was a divorcee is the second wife of the petitioner's/A2 son. The petitioner's son has already got two sons through his first marriage. He further submitted that the petitioner is having property at Chennai and the second respondent demanded to register the said property in the name of her minor daughter. Since the petitioner/A2 refused to do so, dispute arose between them due to which on 04. 05. 2022 the petitioner gave a police complaint against the defacto complainant before the All Women Police Station, Dharmapuri. The petitioner's son has filed HMOP No. 60 of 2022 on the file of the Additional Sub Court, Dharmapuri for divorce on the ground of desertion and cruelty. In order to take revenge against the petitioner/A2 and his son on 16. 07. 2022, the defacto complainant gave the present complaint against the petitioner/A2 with false allegations under the POCSO Act. Hence he prayed to quash the FIR in Crime No. 17 of 2022. On perusal of the FIR, it reveals that the respondent police had registered a case in Crime No. 17 of 2022 against this petitioner/A2 and another person who is the defacto complainant's husband for the offences under Section 9(1), 9(m), 9(n), 10 of Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Under Section 506(i) of IPC. The defacto complainant who is the mother of the victim girl has stated that her daughter who is aged about 15 years, was sexually abused by her father-in-law/the petitioner/A2 and by her husband/A1 and that they both threatened the victim girl not to disclose to any one. On coming to know that her daughter was abused sexually, complaint has been lodged. This Court finds that the FIR discloses prima facie commission of cognizable offence and as such, this Court cannot interfere with the investigation. Therefore, it does not meet the parameters laid down by the Supreme Court in State of Haryana vs. Ch. BhajanLal (AIR 1992 SC 604), M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Vs. State of Maharashtra and others (2021 SCC online 315) & PRATIBHA RANI Vs. SURAJ KUMAR & ANR (1985 Crl. L. J. 817). It is inappropriate to quash the FIR and close the investigation at the beginning stage. Therefore, I find no merits and investigation in this case is to be conducted to find out the truth.

[case 201]
G. Vijayaraj vs The State Rep. By on 7 June, 2018. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 07. 06. 2018 C O R A M THE HONOURABLE Mr. JUSTICE P. N. PRAKASH Crl. O. P. No. 3475 of 2018 and Crl. MP. No. 1541 of 2018 G. Vijayaraj. .. Petitioner Vs. The State rep. by The Inspector of Police W-8, All Women Police Station Thirumangalam, Chennai-600 101. .. . Criminal Original Petition filed under Section 482 of Cr. P. C to set aside the order dated 22. 01. 2018 in MP. No. 435 of 2018 in S. C. No. 311 of 2016 on the file of the Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Chennai and consequently, re-open and re-call the witnesses of P. W. 2 Miss Sangeetha for the cross examination of the petitioner. This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to set aside the order dated 22. 01. 2018 passed in MP. No. 435 of 2018 in S. C. No. 311 of 2016 on the file of the Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Chennai and consequently, re-open and re-call Sangeetha (P. W. 2) for the cross examination of the petitioner. The petitioner is facing trial in S. C. No. 311 of 2016 before the Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Chennai for the offence under Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'the POCSO Act'). It is seen that the victim girl was examined-in-chief on 22. 04. 2017 and she was not cross-examined by the learned counsel for the petitioner herein for the reasons best known to him. Thereafter, the petitioner filed CMP. No. 435 of 2018 in S. C. No. 311 of 2016 under Section 311 Cr. P. C. , to re-call the victim girl for cross-examination, which has been partly allowed by the trial Court on 22. 01. 2018, challenging which, the petitioner/accused is before this Court. Heard Mr. A. M. Venkatakrishnan, learned counsel for the petitioner/accused, who placed strong reliance on the order dated 13. 09. 2017 of the learned Single Judge of this Court made in Crl. OP. (MD). No. 9401 of 2017 and Crl. MP(MD) No. 6403 of 2017. .. . The victim girl who was subjected to sexual abuse cannot be asked to come to the Court again and again and undergo the ordeal and explain how she was subjected to sexual assault. Change of counsel cannot be a reason for re-calling the witnesses. In fact, in Vinod Kumar vs. State of Punjab [2015(1) MLJ (Crl) 288], the Supreme Court has clearly held that the prosecution witnesses should be cross-examined on the day itself, when they are examined in chief. .. . The reasons given by the trial Court for not re-calling the victim girl-P. W. 2 cannot be stated to be perverse warranting interference by this Court. In the result, this petition is dismissed as being devoid of merits.

[case 202]
Sivakumar vs State Rep. By on 27 March, 2018. BEFORE THE MADURAI BENCH OF MADRAS HIGH COURT Dated: 27. 03. 2018 Orders Reserved on: 01. 03. 2018 Orders Pronounced on: 27. 03. 2018 CORAM THE HONOURABLE DR. JUSTICE S. VIMALA AND THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE T. KRISHNAVALLI Crl. A. (MD) No. 330 of 2016. Sivakumar. .. Appellant/Sole Accused -vs- State Rep. by The Inspector of Police, Lalgudi All Women Police Station, Trichy District. (Crime No. 14 of 2012). .. Respondent/Complainant. Prayer: Appeal filed under Section 374(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure praying to call for the records in pertaining to the judgment dated 17. 08. 2015 made in S. C. No. 98 of 2013 on the file of the Sessions Judge Mahila Court, Trichirappalli and set aside the same by way of allowing the appeal and pass such further or other order as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case and thus render justice. For Appellant: Mr. S. A. Ajmal Khan Amicus Curiae For Respondent: Mr. S. Chandrasekar Addl. Public Prosecutor: Judgment S. VIMALA. J? Neither my husband told me that he has been convicted by the Court and he had to suffer life imprisonment nor my cousin sister told me that she is one of the partners responsible for sending my husband to jail and for the mistake committed by both of them, punishment has been imposed upon me and my minor son. ? - This is the statement of the wife of the accused, the real victim of the crime committed by the husband and the cousin sister, thereby giving birth to a child. 2. Who is the victim of the crime committed by the accused? Is it the wife and the two children, who are the legal heirs of the accused? Is it the so called victim girl and her child fathered by the accused? 3. It is the case of the prosecution that the accused, who is the husband of one Selvi had illicit intimacy with the cousin sister of his wife, namely, minor victim (name changed) had illegal intercourse with the victim with a promise of marriage. On account of the intercourse, she became pregnant and the parents came to know about the pregnancy only after seven months of her pregnancy. The parents wanted the Doctor to abort the foetus, but the Doctor refused to abort. Only thereafter, the father of the victim girl preferred a complaint before Lalgudi All Women Police Station. 4. The Inspector of Police, Lalgudi All Women Police Station, registered a case under section 376 IPC against the accused and on completion of the investigation, a charge sheet was filed. The prosecution relied upon the evidence of PWs 1 to 10 and Ex. P1 to Ex. P15. ..

[case 203]
Sri. Shivakumara vs State By Basavapatna Police on 13 September, 2017. This criminal petition is filed under Section 438 of CR. P. C. , praying to enlarge the petitioners on bail in the event of their arrest in CR. No. 47/2017 of Basavapatna P. S. , Davanagere District for the offences P/U/S 9, 10, 11 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and Sec. 10 of POCSO Act. The allegation is, the 1st petitioner married the complainant, now aged 17 years while she was 15 years of age. The marriage was celebrated on the Basava Jayanthi festival of 2015 and one year after the marriage, the complainant joined the husband and in-laws in the matrimonial home during April 2016. One month thereafter, the 2nd petitioner/mother-in-law used to complain against the complainant with her son and the 1st petitioner used to beat her. He used to come home in drunken condition, abuse her filthily and assault her. They harassed her to get away from the matrimonial home. When she was carrying pregnancy for three months, she was assaulted in the presence of her mother and thrown out of the matrimonial home. Her mother is a daily wager and since unable to maintain her, admitted her to Nirmala Hospital, Shivamogga, where she was provided shelter. The Doctor on coming to know her age as 17 years, took her to District Child Welfare Committee. She was in the Shelter Home and thereafter admitted to Mecgan Hospital, Shivamogga, for delivery. Learned counsel for the petitioners submits that the petitioners are from Sillekyathar community and child marriage is very common in their community. They are not aware of the legal impediment against child marriage. They are nomadic people. If the petitioners are arrested, in all probability, it will shut the door of compromise for ever. The complaint allegation is false and probably brought at the instance of third persons. The offence invoked is under Section 10 of the POCSO Act which attracts punishment ranging between 3 years to 7 years. The sensitive question of child born from the marriage between the victim and 1st petitioner cannot be lost sight of. Though the complainant was a minor at the time of the marriage, it is not a marriage void-ab-initio, it is a voidable marriage. Being mindful of the consequence of the situation, this court is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the marriage that the petitioner shall be granted anticipatory bail for a limited period. The petition is allowed. The petitioners are granted anticipatory bail for a period of three weeks in Crime No. 47/2017 registered by the respondent police.

[case 204]
Sivakumar vs State Rep. By on 27 March, 2018. BEFORE THE MADURAI BENCH OF MADRAS HIGH COURT Dated: 27. 03. 2018 Orders Reserved on: 01. 03. 2018 Orders Pronounced on: 27. 03. 2018 CORAM THE HONOURABLE DR. JUSTICE S. VIMALA AND THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE T. KRISHNAVALLI Crl. A. (MD) No. 330 of 2016. Sivakumar. .. Appellant/Sole Accused -vs- State Rep. by The Inspector of Police, Lalgudi All Women Police Station, Trichy District. (Crime No. 14 of 2012). .. Respondent/Complainant. Prayer: Appeal filed under Section 374(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure praying to call for the records in pertaining to the judgment dated 17. 08. 2015 made in S. C. No. 98 of 2013 on the file of the Sessions Judge Mahila Court, Trichirappalli and set aside the same by way of allowing the appeal and pass such further or other order as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case and thus render justice. For Appellant: Mr. S. A. Ajmal Khan Amicus Curiae For Respondent: Mr. S. Chandrasekar Addl. Public Prosecutor: Judgment S. VIMALA. J? Neither my husband told me that he has been convicted by the Court and he had to suffer life imprisonment nor my cousin sister told me that she is one of the partners responsible for sending my husband to jail and for the mistake committed by both of them, punishment has been imposed upon me and my minor son. ? - This is the statement of the wife of the accused, the real victim of the crime committed by the husband and the cousin sister, thereby giving birth to a child. 2. Who is the victim of the crime committed by the accused? Is it the wife and the two children, who are the legal heirs of the accused? Is it the so called victim girl and her child fathered by the accused? 3. It is the case of the prosecution that the accused, who is the husband of one Selvi had illicit intimacy with the cousin sister of his wife, namely, minor victim (name changed) had illegal intercourse with the victim with a promise of marriage. On account of the intercourse, she became pregnant and the parents came to know about the pregnancy only after seven months of her pregnancy. The parents wanted the Doctor to abort the foetus, but the Doctor refused to abort. Only thereafter, the father of the victim girl preferred a complaint before Lalgudi All Women Police Station. 4. The Inspector of Police, Lalgudi All Women Police Station, registered a case under section 376 IPC against the accused and on completion of the investigation, a charge sheet was filed. The prosecution relied upon the evidence of PWs 1 to 10 and Ex. P1 to Ex. P15.

[case 205]
Smt. Mamta Tiwari vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 2 September, 2021. This criminal revision under Sections 397/401 of Cr. P. C. has been filed against the order dated 10. 08. 2018 passed by the Special Judge (POCSO Act), Gwalior in Special Case No. 86/2019, by which the charges under Sections 16 and 17 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short "POCSO Act") have been framed. It is submitted by the counsel for the applicant that the applicant is working as a Counsellor and during her routine inspection of Ashram Shanti Niketan Balika Grih, Birla Nagar, Hazira, Gwalior, the prosecutrix, who is mentally retarded minor and is staying in the Ashram informed that Jain Baba posted in the said Ashram was continuously violating her sexually. During the course of investigation, it was found that the applicant was aware of the physical violation of the minor prosecutrix, who was mentally retarded, and in spite of that, she did not take any action against Jain Baba. When the applicant saw misdeeds of Jain Baba, then instead of taking any action against the co-accused Jain Baba, she simply requested him not to do the said act. The Trial Court by order dated 10. 08. 2021 has framed charges under Sections 16 and 17 of POCSO Act. It is submitted that the allegations are false. The witnesses had not spoken against the applicant at the first instance, but only in the supplementary statement, it was alleged that the applicant had seen the misdeeds of co-accused Jain Baba and instead of taking any action against him, he had simply requested Jain Baba not to indulge in the said act. Thus, it is submitted that such allegation is afterthought and cannot be relied upon. Per contra, counsel for the State has supported the impugned order dated 10. 08. 2018. Sections 16 and 17 of POCSO Act read as under: "16. Abetment of an offence. - A person abets an offence, who- First. -Instigates any person to do that offence; or Secondly. - Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that offence, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in order to the doing of that offence; or Thirdly. -Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that offence. Explanation I. -A person who, by wilful misrepresentation, or by wilful concealment of a material fact, which he is bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to cause or procure a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that offence.

[case 206]
Rupi Babbar vs State Nct Of Delhi on 11 September, 2024 IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI % Reserved on: 30th July, 2024 Pronounced on: 11th September, 2024 + CRL. M. C. 5329/2024 & CRL. M. A. 20393/2024 RUPI BABBAR. .. .. Petitioner Through: Mr. Kapil Madan, Mr. Gurmukh Singh Arora & Mr. Vansh Bajaj, Advs. versus STATE NCT OF DELHI. .. .. Respondent Through: Mr. Pradeep Gahalot, APP for the State with Ms. Prachi Bahl, Mr. Varun Gupta, Ms. Ritu Sharma & Mr. Gaurav Kaushik, Advs with SI Meena Malik, PS Maurya Enclave. CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE ANISH DAYAL JUDGMENT ANISH DAYAL, J. 1. This petition has been filed under Section 482, Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ["CrPC"] assailing order dated 02nd May 2024 ["impugned order"], passed by Additional Sessions Judge-01 (POCSO), North West/Rohini ["Ld. ASJ"], in case arising out of FIR No. 515/2021, registered at Police Station ["PS"] Maurya Enclave. By way of the impugned order, Ld. ASJ inter alia framed charges against the petitioner under Section 19(1) POCSO punishable under Section 21 POCSO. 2. The FIR was registered basis the complaint of the complainant/prosecutrix (daughter of the petitioner herein) who, at the time of the alleged offence, was a minor girl aged 16 years. The FIR was registered under Sections 354, 354A, 377, 323, and 376 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ["IPC"] and Sections 6 and 10 of the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ["POCSO"]. 3. On an application dated 22nd August 2022 moved by counsel for accused, the mother of the prosecutrix i. e. petitioner Rupi Babbar was summoned to the Trial Court whereafter the impugned order was passed, framing charges under Section 21, POCSO against her for failure to report offences against her daughter/prosecutrix. Allegations in the FIR 4. Prosecutrix had alleged that she was residing along with her mother, the petitioner herein, at a rented house since March 2021, prior to that she was residing with her entire family at her grandparents' house at Pitampura, Delhi. 5. When prosecutrix was in 7th class, her father ["accused"] touched her in an inappropriate manner; followed her to the bathroom, closed the door from outside, and opened it after half an hour so that she would not complain about him. Once when she was going to washroom; her father held her from behind, touched her private parts and tried to insert his finger. She also alleged that her father had shown pornography to her on his mobile phone. Inappropriate behaviour of the accused continued.

[case 207]
IN THE COURT OF SH. ARVIND KUMAR ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE-01 ( CENTRAL): DELHI SC No: 119/13 ID No. : 02401R0273612013 FIR No. : 65/13 Police Station: Gulabi Bagh Under Section: 354A/354D/323/506 IPC &: 8/11(iv)/12 of POCSO Act State Versus Mohit @ Moni S/o Sh. Raju R/o 540/13, Nai Basti, Kishan Ganj, Delhi - 110 007. .. .. .. .. .Accused Date of Institution: 30. 05. 2013 Date of judgment reserved on: 13. 08. 2015 Date of judgment: 31. 08. 2015 Present: Sh. R. K. Tanwar, Additional Public Prosecutor for the State Sh. Hemant Choudhary, Advocate, Ld. Counsel for the accused. JUDGMENT: - Briefly stated facts of prosecution case are that on 07 th May 2013, a call was received regarding quarrel at Main Chabutra, Gali No. 1, Kishan Ganj, Nai Basti, Vide DD no. 32PP dated 07. 05. 2013. The police officials reached at 483, Nai Basti, Kishan Ganj and recorded the statement of complainant (complainant is the mother of victim and in order to conceal the identity of the victim of sexual assault, she is hereinafter referred as complainant and the prosecutrix shall be referred as the victim). The complainant stated that the accused was stalking her daughter when her daughter used to be on her way to school and had also caught her hand and was also asking her daughter to have friendship with him. The victim has informed her mother 4-5 days before and the complainant tried to persuade the accused not to do these acts but accused continued with his misbehaviour and on 07. 05. 2013 her son was coming from his maternal grandfather's house on foot and when he reached near Pratap Nagar metro station he met accused and asked the accused to remain away from his sister and on this accused had beaten her son and also threatened to kill them. An FIR was lodged under section 8/11 (iv)/12 of POCSO Act, 2012 and 354/354(A)/354(D)/323/506 IPC. The IO prepared site plan and arrested the accused. Police recorded the statement of victim under section 161 Cr. P. C. The victim was taken before the Ld. MM and her statement under section 164 Cr. P. C. was got recorded. After completing investigation, challan was filed for the offences punishable under Section 8/11 (iv)/12 of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act (in short POCSO Act) 2012 and 354/354 (A)/354(D)/323/506 IPC. After complying with the provisions of Section 207 Cr. P. C. , a charge for the offence punishable under Section 354D/506/323 IPC read with Section 8/12 of POCSO Act was framed to which accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

[case 208]
The petitioner is a bachelor. He has a brother by name Madhu, the 3rd respondent herein. After the death of the father of the petitioner herein both Madhu and Manoj are residing in the same house. Madhu is a married man and is living with his wife and a minor child. The petitioner states that his brother and his wife used to harass him, both mentally and physically, with a view to drive him out of the house. Though numerous complaints were filed, no action was taken against the brother. Instead, crimes have been registered against the petitioner herein. He states that his brother has gone to the extent of alleging that the petitioner has abused his minor child and based on a false complaint Crime No. 503 of 2019 has been registered inter alia under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and other offences. He contends that he was not even present at the scene of crime and to substantiate the falsity of allegations, he has approached the information officer and sought for the CCTV footages by lodging Ext. P6 request. It is contended that the petitioner thereafter lodged Exts. P8 and P9 complaints before the higher police officers. However, no action was taken. Later, a complaint was lodged on 8. 4. 2019, when his ATM card was stolen by his brother and money was withdrawn. Crime No. 715 of 2019 has been registered against Madhu and the case is pending investigation. He contends that a near friend of his brother, a certain Nishanth, attacked the petitioner on 29. 2. 2020. Based on his complaint, Crime No. 143 of 2020 was registered against the aforesaid accused. Later, based on his information, Crime No. 146 of 2020 was registered against the petitioner. The petitioner contends that he is being continuously summoned to the police station and he is being forced to settle Crime No. 715 of 2019 registered against Madhu for stealing the ATM Card. He contends that though the police have filed a final report in Crime No. 146 of 2020, no such report has been submitted in Crime No. 143 of 2020. The petitioner states that the police have no authority to summon the petitioner to the police station and force him to settle cases or intervene in civil disputes between the petitioner and his brother. It is in the above backdrop that the petitioner is before this Court seeking the following relief: "Issue a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ, order or direction directing the respondents to refrain from any action of harassment against the petitioner. "

[case 209]
Sivakumar vs State Rep. By on 27 March, 2018. BEFORE THE MADURAI BENCH OF MADRAS HIGH COURT Dated: 27. 03. 2018 Orders Reserved on: 01. 03. 2018 Orders Pronounced on: 27. 03. 2018 CORAM THE HONOURABLE DR. JUSTICE S. VIMALA AND THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE T. KRISHNAVALLI Crl. A. (MD) No. 330 of 2016. Sivakumar. .. Appellant/Sole Accused -vs- State Rep. by The Inspector of Police, Lalgudi All Women Police Station, Trichy District. (Crime No. 14 of 2012). .. Respondent/Complainant. Prayer: Appeal filed under Section 374(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure praying to call for the records in pertaining to the judgment dated 17. 08. 2015 made in S. C. No. 98 of 2013 on the file of the Sessions Judge Mahila Court, Trichirappalli and set aside the same by way of allowing the appeal and pass such further or other order as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case and thus render justice. For Appellant: Mr. S. A. Ajmal Khan Amicus Curiae For Respondent: Mr. S. Chandrasekar Addl. Public Prosecutor: Judgment S. VIMALA. J? Neither my husband told me that he has been convicted by the Court and he had to suffer life imprisonment nor my cousin sister told me that she is one of the partners responsible for sending my husband to jail and for the mistake committed by both of them, punishment has been imposed upon me and my minor son. ? - This is the statement of the wife of the accused, the real victim of the crime committed by the husband and the cousin sister, thereby giving birth to a child. 2. Who is the victim of the crime committed by the accused? Is it the wife and the two children, who are the legal heirs of the accused? Is it the so called victim girl and her child fathered by the accused? 3. It is the case of the prosecution that the accused, who is the husband of one Selvi had illicit intimacy with the cousin sister of his wife, namely, minor victim (name changed) had illegal intercourse with the victim with a promise of marriage. On account of the intercourse, she became pregnant and the parents came to know about the pregnancy only after seven months of her pregnancy. The parents wanted the Doctor to abort the foetus, but the Doctor refused to abort. Only thereafter, the father of the victim girl preferred a complaint before Lalgudi All Women Police Station. 4. The Inspector of Police, Lalgudi All Women Police Station, registered a case under section 376 IPC against the accused and on completion of the investigation, a charge sheet was filed.

[case 210]
Sri. Shivakumara vs State By Basavapatna Police on 13 September, 2017. This criminal petition is filed under Section 438 of CR. P. C. , praying to enlarge the petitioners on bail in the event of their arrest in CR. No. 47/2017 of Basavapatna P. S. , Davanagere District for the offences P/U/S 9, 10, 11 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and Sec. 10 of POCSO Act. The allegation is, the 1st petitioner married the complainant, now aged 17 years while she was 15 years of age. The marriage was celebrated on the Basava Jayanthi festival of 2015 and one year after the marriage, the complainant joined the husband and in-laws in the matrimonial home during April 2016. One month thereafter, the 2nd petitioner/mother-in-law used to complain against the complainant with her son and the 1st petitioner used to beat her. He used to come home in drunken condition, abuse her filthily and assault her. They harassed her to get away from the matrimonial home. When she was carrying pregnancy for three months, she was assaulted in the presence of her mother and thrown out of the matrimonial home. Her mother is a daily wager and since unable to maintain her, admitted her to Nirmala Hospital, Shivamogga, where she was provided shelter. The Doctor on coming to know her age as 17 years, took her to District Child Welfare Committee. She was in the Shelter Home and thereafter admitted to Mecgan Hospital, Shivamogga, for delivery. Learned counsel for the petitioners submits that the petitioners are from Sillekyathar community and child marriage is very common in their community. They are not aware of the legal impediment against child marriage. They are nomadic people. If the petitioners are arrested, in all probability, it will shut the door of compromise for ever. The offence invoked is under Section 10 of the POCSO Act which attracts punishment ranging between 3 years to 7 years. The sensitive question of child born from the marriage between the victim and 1st petitioner cannot be lost sight of. Though the complainant was a minor at the time of the marriage, it is not a marriage void-ab-initio, it is a voidable marriage. Being mindful of the consequence of the situation, this court is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the marriage that the petitioner shall be granted anticipatory bail for a limited period. The petitioners are granted anticipatory bail for a period of three weeks in Crime No. 47/2017 registered by the respondent police.

[case 211]
G. Pappuraj vs The Chairman on 4 January, 2018. Before the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court. This Writ Petition is filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, to issue a Writ of Certiorarified Mandamus, calling for the records pertaining to the impugned notice issued by the 3rd respondent in his proceedings in Na. Ka. No. A3/12750/2017 dated 09. 10. 2017 and quash the same and consequently direct the respondents to appoint the petitioner in the post of Police Constable Grade II - 2017. The Chairman, Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board, Chennai? 2, issued notification dated 23. 01. 2017 inviting applications for the post of Police Constables? Grade II, Jail Warders? Grade II and Fireman, 2017. The petitioner herein was eligible to apply for the said post. He submitted his application dated 05. 02. 2017. He was issued with the hall ticket. He took part in the selection process and was found to be successful. But, he was denied appointment on the ground that his character and antecedent were not found to be satisfactory. The third respondent issued the impugned memorandum dated 09. 10. 2017 in this regard. The learned Additional Advocate General drew the attention of this Court to the serious allegations made against the writ petitioner. He was implicated not in a petty criminal case, but a serious one. It was a case involving Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012. The victim child had narrated the sexual abuse and torture to which he was subjected to. However, before the criminal Court, the prosecution witnesses turned hostile. It is obvious that in view of Ex. P7 marked in the said judgment, the acquittal rendered in favour of the writ petitioner cannot be said to be honourable. In all probability, the parents of the victim child were won over by the accused. A Full Bench of this Court held that by virtue of Explanation 1 to clause (iv) of Rule 14(b) of the Tamil Nadu Special Police Subordinate Service Rules, a person acquitted on benefit of doubt or discharged in a criminal case, can still be considered as disqualified for selection to the police service of the State. Considering the serious nature of the case, in which the writ petitioner was involved and the fact that the victim had given a statement under Section 164 of Cr. P. C. , I am of the view that no indulgence deserves to be shown to the writ petitioner. The order impugned in the writ petition is sustained. This writ petition stands dismissed.

[case 212]
Chandan Kumar Das @ Chandan Kumar vs The State Of Bihar on 18 January, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL MISCELLANEOUS No. 76916 of 2024 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -271 Year-2024 Thana- RAJIVNAGAR District- Patna. The petitioner has prayed for bail in a case registered for the offence punishable under Sections 363 and 366A of the IPC, later on charge-sheet has been submitted under Sections 363, 366A and 376 of the IPC and also under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and under Section 9 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. The case of the prosecution is that minor daughter of the informant aged about 17 years has gone for coaching and she did not return after a considerable time. Then the informant enquired about it. He came to know that the petitioner has enticed and taken her daughter to his house. When the informant went to the house of the petitioner, his daughter was there and he was not allowed to take his daughter back to his house. The informant was abused. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner has submitted that during course of investigation, the victim has given her statement under Section 164 Cr. P. C. that she on the date of occurrence she had gone to the house of Chandan Kumar Das. Her father has also arrived there but she did not return with her father. She has further stated in her statement that her father used to beat her that is why she did not return with him. She further stated that she was living with Chandan Kumar Das (petitioner) in a room at Gandhi Maidan where the petitioner had sexual relation with the victim. She has further stated that the relation was on their own will. From the perusal of the statement of the victim it is clear that it is a case of adolescence. The petitioner is having no criminal antecedent. He is in custody since 18. 05. 2024. The application for bail is opposed by learned APP for the State. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and considering the facts and circumstances of the case, this Court is inclined to enlarge the petitioner on bail. The above named petitioner is directed to be enlarged on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs. 10, 000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand) with two sureties of the like amount each to the satisfaction of the learned Additional Sessions Judge- VI-cum-Special Judge (POCSO), Patna in connection with Rajiv Nagar P. S. Case No. 271 of 2024. Accordingly, the present bail application stands allowed.

[case 213]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Alagraj Panwar vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 24 February, 2025. The first application has been filed by the applicant under Section 483 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 for grant of regular bail in connection with Crime No. 382/2024 registered at Police Station - Kshipra District - Indore(M. P. ) for offence punishable under Sections 115(2), 118(4), 296, 351(2 ), 3(5) & 109 of BNS 2023. Applicant is in judicial custody since 16. 10. 2024. As per the case of prosecution, Alagraj and the child-in-conflict with law went to the house of their relative (brother-in-law of Alagraj), Ajay Singh on 14. 07. 2024 and abused him in filthy language for meeting his sister - Jatani. Alagraj assaulted Ajay Singh with wooden stick. Alagraj caught hold of Ajay Singh and the child-in-conflict with law assaulted him with knife. Sakku, Anu Bai and Jatani rescued him. Ajay was admitted at M. Y. Hospital, Indore, and was under treatment from 14. 07. 2024 to 20. 07. 2024. After discharge from the hospital, Ajay Singh reported the incident to Outpost Mangalia of P. S. Kshipra Distt. Indore. P. S. Kshipra registered FIR for offence punishable u/S 115(2), 118(1), 296, 351(2), 3(5) and 109 of BNS, against Alagraj and his son. The treatment paper of Ajay were requisitioned. The statement of witnesses were recorded. Alagraj was arrested on 16. 10. 2024. The learned Counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant has been falsely implicated. The trial would take time to complete. The applicant may be extended the benefit of bail. Per contra, the learned counsel for the State opposes the bail application on the ground of gravity of alleged offence. However, no criminal antecedent is reported against the applicant. The case diary and material on record reveal that the altercation aggravated into physical scuffle wherein the child-in-conflict with law assaulted his maternal uncle with a knife. Allegation against the applicant relates to assisting in assault. Injured Ajay was discharged after treatment for 6 days. Considering the absence of criminal antecedents and the socio-economic status, there appears to be no compelling reason to continue incarceration of the applicant. The trial would take time to conclude. Therefore, this Court is inclined to release the applicant on bail. Conditions may be imposed by the Trial Court under Section 437(3) of Cr. P. C. 1973/ Section 480(3) of BNSS, 2023.

[case 214]
The present appeal has been filed by the appellant/State being aggrieved by the order on sentence passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge whereby pursuant to the conviction of the respondent for offences punishable under Section 363 IPC and Section 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ('POCSO Act'), vide order on sentence dated 10th February, 2015, the respondent was released on the period undergone. In this regard, it would be relevant to note the concluding paragraphs of the order on sentence passed by the learned Special Judge. "6. I have considered the rival submissions made by the Ld. APP and of counsel for convict. It is an admitted case that this is the first offence of the convict u/s 363 IPC and Section 10 of POCSO Act which is punishable with maximum imprisonment for five years with fine. Convict is stated to be having responsibility of his family. In the facts, and circumstances, having regard to the fact that this is the first offence of the convict, that offence u/s 363 IPC and 10 of POCSO Act is punishable with maximum five years imprisonment, to the economic condition of the convict's family and recommendation for probation made by the Probation Officer, Rohini, therefore, convict deserves to be given a chance for reformation by taking a lenient view. Accordingly, prayer of counsel for convict is accepted. Instead of sentencing the convict to punishment, convict is given the benefit of probation and is directed to file a personal bond of good behaviour and conduct in the sum of Rs. 10, 000/- with one surety in the like amount for a period of one year with the condition that he shall remain under the supervision of Probation Officer, Rohini Court for one year and shall report before the Probation Officer once every month and shall not commit similar offence during this period of one year and if any such offence is brought to the notice of this court during this period of one year, then this court will be at liberty to impose appropriate sentence upon the convict u/s 363 IPC and Section 10 of POCSO Act. The convict is informed that he has a right to prefer an appeal against this judgment. He has been apprised that if he cannot afford to engage an advocate, he can approach the Legal Aid Cell, functioning in Tihar Jail or write to Secretary, Delhi High Court, Legal Services Committee, 34-37, Lawyers Chamber Block, High Court of Delhi, New Delhi.

[case 215]
Can criminal proceedings involving non-compoundable sexual offences against women and children be quashed upon a compromise between the accused and the victim, invoking section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure? - this is the common issue that falls into consideration in these bunch of cases. The petitioners in all cases are the accused involved in sexual offences either under Chapter XVI of the Indian Penal Code (for short 'IPC') or under Chapter II of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO Act') or both. All of them seek to quash the proceedings on the ground of settlement with the victim. Since there were divergent views on the subject by the Apex Court and High Courts across the country, I have directed the Counsel for the petitioners as well as the Public Prosecutors to address arguments in detail. The learned Counsel for the petitioners submitted that High Court possesses inherent jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (for short 'Cr. P. C') to annul an FIR or criminal proceeding in appropriate cases where the offender and the victim have settled their dispute notwithstanding the fact that the offence involved is a sexual offence against women or children. The learned counsel further submitted that when the matter has been amicably settled, the victim would not support the prosecution case, and the possibility of conviction would be bleak. The continuation of proceedings, in such circumstances, would be a sheer waste of precious judicial time and public money, submitted the Counsel. Per contra, the learned Public Prosecutors submitted that rape or sexual offence against women or children is a heinous crime against society, and any compromise between the victim and the offender in relation to such an offence could not ordinarily provide for any basis for quashing the criminal proceedings in exercise of the wholesome power of the High Court under section 482 of Cr. P. C. They further submitted that compromises legalise rape and offer an escape route to the perpetrators. However, they fairly concurred with the view expressed by this court that there cannot be total embargo in exercising the extraordinary power vested with this court under section 482 of Cr. P. C. to quash criminal proceedings based on the settlement between the accused and the sexual assault victim in suitable cases to do complete justice to them.

[case 216]
Prabhat Thru. His Father Shri Hanoman. .. vs State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Home. .. on 17 May, 2023, HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH, 1. Heard Sri Samrat, learned counsel for the revisionist, Sri Ravindra Kumar holding brief of Sri Vijayendra Prakash Tripathi, learned counsel for opposite party no. 2 as well as Shri Alok Sarn, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the entire record. 2. At the outset, learned counsel for the revisionist seeks and is granted permission to amend the description of juvenile in a manner which does not disclose the identity of the juvenile during the course of the day. 3. Prayer made for is allowed. 4. Let necessary corrections/amendments be incorporated during the course of the day. 5. The instant revision is filed with prayer to assail the impugned order dated 30. 07. 2022 passed by Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge, POCSO, Court No. 2, Lucknow, under section 302, 201, I. P. C. Police Station: Chinhat, District: Lucknow, passed in Criminal Appeal No. 113 of 2022 arising out of Case Crime No. 107 of 2022, arising out of F. I. R. No. 1016 of 2021, lodged under section 302 I. P. C. at Police Station: Chinhat, District: Lucknow. 6. It has been submitted by learned counsel for the revisionist that the innocent revisionist has falsely been implicated in the present case. The revisionist hails from a family who have no criminal history. His further submission is that both the courts below have been swayed by the alleged seriousness of the offence, whereas for the purposes of enlarging the revisionist on bail under proviso to Section 12(1) of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as Act of 2015) is significant, which has been overlooked by the court below, therefore, impugned judgment and orders dated 06. 06. 2022 & 30. 07. 2022 are not sustainable in the eyes of law. He has also submitted that no adverse report against the present revisionist has been given by the District Probation Officer concerned and whatever has been mentioned in the social investigation report against the present revisionist, is not based on any cogent material. He has further submitted that revisionist is confined in the Children Reformatory Home since 07. 04. 2022 in connection with the present crime. Only three years' institutional incarceration is permissible for a juvenile, under Section 18(1)(g) Act of 2015.

[case 217]
State Of Karnataka By vs Ramegowda on 7 March, 2025 - 1- NC: 2025: KHC: 9749 CRL. RP No. 1031 of 2018 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 7TH DAY OF MARCH, 2025 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE RAJESH RAI K CRIMINAL REVISION PETITION NO. 1031 OF 2018 BETWEEN: STATE OF KARNATAKA BY CHANDRA LAYOUT POLICE STATION, BENGALURU. REPRESENTED BY STATE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT BUILDING, BANGALORE-1. .. PETITIONER (BY SRI. CHANNAPPA ERAPPA, HCGP) AND: RAMEGOWDA S/O CHANNAIAH, AGED ABOUT 41 YEARS R/A TIGULARA THOTA, NAYANDANAHALLI, MYSORE ROAD, BENGALURU-560 039. .. .RESPONDENT (BY SRI. K. N SUBBAREDDY, ADVOCATE) THIS CRL. RP IS FILED U/S. 397 R/W 401 OF CR. P. C PRAYING TO ALLOW THE ABOVE CRIMINAL REVISION PETITION AND SET ASIDE THE AFORESAID ORDER DATED 04. 06. 2018 IN S. C. NO. 1158/2017 ON THE FILE OF THE COURT OF LIII ADDITIONAL CITY CIVIL AND SESSIONS JUDGE AT BANGALORE (CCH-54). THIS PETITION, COMING ON FOR HEARING, THIS DAY, ORDER WAS MADE THEREIN AS UNDER: -2- NC: 2025: KHC: 9749 CRL. RP No. 1031 of 2018 CORAM: HON'BLE MR JUSTICE RAJESH RAI K ORAL ORDER This revision petition is directed against the order dated 04. 06. 2018 passed in S. C. No. 1158/2017 by the LIII Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru (CCH-54) [hereinafter referred to as 'learned Sessions Judge'], whereby learned Sessions Judge allowed the application filed under Section 227 of Cr. P. C. by the respondent/accused and discharged him in Cr. No. 28/2017 for the offence punishable under Sections 376, 354, 504, 506 and 417 of IPC. 2. The abridge facts of the prosecution case are that: The prosecutrix-CW. 1-a married lady with a child was separated from her husband. The accused exploited by taking advantage of her vulnerability and raped her for seven year promising to marry her. Finally, on 24. 01. 2017 when the victim confronted the accused insisting to visit her only after marrying her, he slapped, raped, threatened and vowed to not marry her. As such, she lodged a complaint before the Chandra Layout Police Station and based on the said complaint, the said police registered a case against the accused for the offences punishable under Sections 504, 506, 420 and 417 of IPC in Cr. No. 28/2017 dated 26. 01. 2017. Subsequently, the said police investigated the case and laid chargesheet against the accused for the offences punishable under Sections 376, 354, 504, 506 and 417 of IPC before the Committal Court.

[case 218]
The Honourable Mrs. Justice Shircy vs By Advs. Sri. Liji. J. Vadakedom on 26 July, 2018. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM. PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE SHIRCY V. Bail Appl. .No. 4067 of 2018. CRIME NO. 711/2018 OF KARUKACHAL POLICE STATION, KOTTAYAM. PETITIONER/ACCUSED. RAJAPPAN K. K. AGED 70 YEARS, S/O KUMARAN, PONNAMPARAMBIL, SANTHIPURAM PO, NEDUMPADAPPALLY, NEAR KARUKACHAL. BY ADVS. SRI. LIJI. J. VADAKEDOM SMT. REXY ELIZABETH THOMAS SRI. RAJEEV JYOTHISH GEORGE. RESPONDENT/STATE: 1. STATE OF KERALA REPRESENTED BY THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM. 682 031. 2. SUB INSPECTOR OF POLICE, KARUKACHAL POLICE STATION, KOTTAYAM DISTRICT. THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 26-07-2018, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: SHIRCY V. , J. ================ B. A. No. 4067 of 2018 ================ Dated this the 26th day of July, 2018 ORDER Application for pre-arrest bail. 2. Petitioner is accused in Crime No. 711/2018 of Karukachal Police Station registered for the offences punishable under Sections 7 & 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO for short). 3. The prosecution allegation is that on 10. 6. 2018, the petitioner had sexually assaulted a minor girl child aged only 9 years and thereby committed the aforesaid offences. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the petitioner is a pretty old man aged 60 years. He has been falsely implicated in the case. He apprehends arrest and torture by the Police and hence this petition. 5. Learned Public Prosecutor has vehemently opposed this application and submitted that the investigation of the case is only in the initial stage. 6. A perusal of the records would show that the offence alleged against this petitioner is grave and serious in nature. Sexual abuse against women and children are increasing day by day. If anticipatory bail is granted in such cases, it will give a wrong message to the society. More over the investigation is only in the preliminary stage. 7. Considering the gravity of the offence alleged against the petitioner and the present stage of investigation, I think that if bail is granted to him, there is every possibility to intimidate the victim and thus to tamper with the investigation of the case. Hence, I am not inclined to grant pre-arrest bail. Accordingly, this Bail application is dismissed.

[case 219]
Manoj vs State Of Karnataka on 31 October, 2018. THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 31ST DAY OF OCTOBER, 2018 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MRS. JUSTICE K. S. MUDAGAL CRIMINAL PETITION NO. 4957/2018 BETWEEN MANOJ S/O LATE NAGARAJ, AGED ABOUT 20 YEARS, R/O N. R. COLONY, 1ST CROSS, TUMKUR-572103. .. . RESPONDENT (BY SMT. NAMITHA MAHESH, HCGP) THIS CRIMINAL PETITION IS FILED UNDER SECTION 439 CR. P. C PRAYING TO ENLARGE THE PETITIONER ON BAIL IN CR. NO. 13/2018 OF WOMEN POLICE STATION, TUMAKURU FOR THE OFFENCE P/U/S 366(A), 376 AND 417 OF IPC AND SECTION 4, 6, 10 OF POCSO ACT AND SECTION 9 OF PROHIBITION OF CHILD MARRIAGE ACT. THE COURT MADE THE FOLLOWING: ORDER The petitioner is in judicial custody in Crime No. 13/2018 of Women Police Station, Tumakuru. He is charge sheeted in the said case for the offences punishable under Sections 366(A), 376, 417 of IPC and Sections 4, 6 and 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO Act') and Section 9 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. It is alleged that the petitioner luring CW. 2 aged about 17 years of love and assuring to marry her committed repeated penetrative aggravated sexual assault in her house and on learning that her family members arranged their marriage. It is further alleged that the petitioner luring minor CW. 3 also of love and marriage, kidnapped her from the custody of her parents and took her to Bengaluru and married there in Herohalli Anjaneya Swamy Temple and between 02. 02. 2018 to 07. 02. 2018, lodged her in the house of CW. 7 in Tumakuru town and committed penetrative sexual assault on her. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that as per the complaint, the elders of CW. 2 fixed her marriage with the petitioner after attaining the majority, therefore, the provisions of POCSO Act are not attracted. Learned HCGP submits that as per the charge sheet records, the offence of rape is committed when both CWs. 2 and 3 were minors. The charge sheet contains the statements of victims-CWs. 2 and 3, recorded by the judicial Magistrate under Section 164 of Cr. P. C. The statements and other material on record indicate that both CWs. 2 and 3 were minors when the petitioner sexually abused them. Having regard to the gravity of the offences and materials on record, it is not a fit case to grant bail to the petitioner. Therefore, the petition is dismissed.

[case 220]
The alleged sodomy and brutal murder of a eight year old boy forms the background of this criminal appeal. The appellant has challenged the judgment dated 31. 7. 2002 passed by the Addl. Sessions Judge (Fast Track), Jhunjhunu whereby the appellant has been convicted for offences under Section 377 and 302 IPC. For the former offence, the appellant has been sentenced to 10 years R. I. and fined Rs. 500/- and to further undergo a sentence to fifteen days of simple imprisonment in default thereof. For the latter offence, he has been sentenced to life imprisonment and fined Rs. 2, 000/- and to further undergo two months simple imprisonment in default thereof. The brief facts of the case are that on 7. 9. 2000 Chhala Ram (PW-1) lodged a report (Ex. P. 1) at Police Station, Chirawa wherein he claimed that "his young son Mintu, aged eight years, was missing from the afternoon of 2. 9. 2000. The boy had left the house at 12'O clock in order to play. However, when the body did not return back home till 7'O clock in the evening, he started to search for him. He was told that the child was seen leaving the house of Jai Prakash and after that he was not seen. Therefore, on 3. 9. 2000 he had filed a report for the missing child. He further claimed that in the morning of the 7th, at 6'0 clock, some of the villagers gathered and they started searching near the river. Around 9'O clock Bakhtawar and Jainarain Sharma, who went on the east side of the river among the tall grasses, discovered the dead body of his son and his clothes. He suspected that someone has killed his son. On the basis of the said report the police chalked out a former FIR, FIR No. 226/2000, and commenced the investigation. On the same day, the appellant was arrested as some of the witnesses had stated that they had seen the deceased on the last occasion with the appellant. Eventually, the police filed a charge-sheet for the offences under Section 377 and 302 IPC against the appellant. In order to prove its case the prosecution examined 15 witnesses and submitted 29 documents. Although the defence did not examine any witness, but it did submit the statement of Bakhtawar recorded under Section 161 Cr. P. C. as a document. After considering the oral and documentary evidence, the learned trial court was pleased to convict and sentence the appellant as aforementioned. Hence this appeal before us.

[case 221]
The alleged sodomy and brutal murder of a eight year old boy forms the background of this criminal appeal. The appellant has challenged the judgment dated 31. 7. 2002 passed by the Addl. Sessions Judge (Fast Track), Jhunjhunu whereby the appellant has been convicted for offences under Section 377 and 302 IPC. For the former offence, the appellant has been sentenced to 10 years R. I. and fined Rs. 500/- and to further undergo a sentence to fifteen days of simple imprisonment in default thereof. For the latter offence, he has been sentenced to life imprisonment and fined Rs. 2, 000/- and to further undergo two months simple imprisonment in default thereof. The brief facts of the case are that on 7. 9. 2000 Chhala Ram (PW-1) lodged a report (Ex. P. 1) at Police Station, Chirawa wherein he claimed that 'his young son Mintu, aged eight years, was missing from the afternoon of 2. 9. 2000. The boy had left the house at 12'O clock in order to play. However, when the body did not return back home till 7'O clock in the evening, he started to search for him. He was told that the child was seen leaving the house of Jai Prakash and after that he was not seen. Therefore, on 3. 9. 2000 he had filed a report for the missing child. He further claimed that in the morning of the 7th, at 6'0 clock, some of the villagers gathered and they started searching near the river. Around 9'O clock Bakhtawar and Jainarain Sharma, who went on the east side of the river among the tall grasses, discovered the dead body of his son and his clothes. He suspected that someone has killed his son. On the basis of the said report the police chalked out a former FIR, FIR No. 226/2000, and commenced the investigation. On the same day, the appellant was arrested as some of the witnesses had stated that they had seen the deceased on the last occasion with the appellant. Eventually, the police filed a charge-sheet for the offences under Section 377 and 302 IPC against the appellant. In order to prove its case the prosecution examined 15 witnesses and submitted 29 documents. Although the defence did not examine any witness, but it did submit the statement of Bakhtawar recorded under Section 161 Cr. P. C. as a document. After considering the oral and documentary evidence, the learned trial court was pleased to convict and sentence the appellant as aforementioned. Hence this appeal before us.

[case 222]
Asif vs State Of Haryana on 16 September, 2021. Asif-petitioner is seeking regular bail in the case bearing FIR No. 79 dated 04. 10. 2018 under Sections 211/343/506/34 of IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act, registered at Police Station Adarsh Nagar, Ballabgarh. Briefly, the case has been registered on the allegations that the child victim aged about 13 years was sexually abused. The petitioner along with four other persons had sexually abused and committed oral sex. Love-co-accused has also sexually abused the child in the room of Rinku. The petitioner had taken the child to Sergarh where he was kept in custody. It has been argued by the learned counsel for the petitioner that there is no allegation of sexual abuse of the child leveled against the petitioner. The petitioner along with four other persons are facing trial. All the accused except the petitioner and Rahul Kumar have been released on bail. Furthermore, Rahul Kumar, co-accused has also been granted bail by this Court. The petitioner is in custody since 17. 10. 2018 and is not involved in any other case. The statement of the victim as well as his parents have also been recorded. The trial of the case is going at fairly good pace and has opposed the bail application on the score that the co-accused have sexually abused the child aged about 13 years and they were sharing common interest with the petitioner. It is significant to note that the co-accused have been granted bail and the victim and parents have also been examined during the course of trial. There is no allegation with regard to sexual intercourse leveled against the petitioner. The petitioner has undergone incarceration for a period of more than two and a half years. The investigation of the case is complete, challan has already been presented and the conclusion of the trial is likely to take sometime on account of restricted hearing of the Courts due to Covid-19 Pandemic. As such, no fruitful purpose will be served by detaining the petitioner in further custody and sufficient mitigating circumstances are made out to extend the concession of the bail to the petitioner. Without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the instant petition is allowed. The petitioner is ordered to be released on bail on his furnishing requisite bail bonds to the satisfaction of the learned trial Court/Duty Magistrate concerned.

[case 223]
State (Govt Of Nct) vs Kuldeep Kumar on 24 February, 2016
CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE G. S. SISTANI HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE SANGITA DHINGRA SEHGAL SANGITA DHINGRA SEHGAL, J. 1. Present leave to appeal petition has been filed by the State under Section 378 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure against the judgment dated 30. 03. 2015 passed by Ms. Neena Bansal Krishna, Additional Sessions Judge-01, Patiala House Courts, New Delhi in Session's Case No. 01/14, whereby the respondent was acquitted of the charges framed under Section 363/376/506 of the Indian Penal Code read with Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012. 2. The brief facts of this case, as noticed by the learned Trial Court in the judgment are enumerated as under: "The complainant Smt. Neelima Devi, gave a statement on 30. 09. 2013 that her younger daughter aged about fourteen years, had gone to her school in the morning at about 6. 30 AM, but she has failed to return back home. They made a search for her, but have not been able to trace her. On the complaint FIR under Section 363 IPC was registered. Investigations were carried by SI Sandeep Mann. The complainant informed the investigating officer that their earlier tenant Kuldeep Kumar may have taken away her daughter. A search was made for Kuldeep and he was found to be a resident of Gola Bazaar, Mainpuri, UP. Suraj, friend of accused Kuldeep came to the police station on 05. 10. 2013 and informed that about three to four days back, the prosecutrix had borrowed his phone and talked to the accused and that he suspected that the prosecutrix was with the accused. On this information, SI Sandeep Mann along with constable Sandeep and W/Const. Indu Bala went to the house of the accused at Mainpuri and recovered the prosecutrix from his house. The prosecutrix out of fear did not reveal anything. The accused, however, informed the investigating officer that he and the prosecutrix loved each other and she had gone with him out of her own free consent. A notice under Section 160 Cr. P. C was served upon the accused and was told to come to the police station on 06. 10. 2013. The prosecutrix was brought back to the police station where she gave her statement that in September, 2013 when she was alone in her house, the accused had taken advantage of the situation and had done galat kaam and also threatened that he would kill her as well as himself. .. .

[case 224]
Ramseena vs State Of Kerala on 30 June, 2017. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM. PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE SUNIL THOMAS. Bail Appl. .No. 4110 of 2017. The petitioner herein stands accused in Crime Nos. 742/2017 and 743/2017 of Sasthamcotta police station for offences punishable under sections 366A, 376 r/w section 34 of the Indian Penal Code and under sections 3(a), 5(1) 4, 6, 7 & 8 of POCSO Act, 2012. Both the above crimes relate to the sexual abuse of two young girls, who are sisters. The first accused in both the above crimes is Ramseena, the petitioner. The prosecution allegation is that, the said Ramseena got acquainted with the family of the victims. It is alleged that, Ramseena used to claim that she had spiritual power for healing and also for ostracizing. She enticed the younger girl among the victims, who was a 9th standard student, representing that if she offered prayer at a Dargha at Ervadi, she would get good marks in examination and would bring good fortune to the family. On the basis of the above promise, the family members entrusted the above victim to the custody of the said Ramseena. She took her to Ervadi and returned after few days. The girl committed suicide by hanging on 4/4/2017. Initially, it was thought that, she had committed suicide due to ill treatment of her younger brother, who was a physically challenged boy. The suicide note also referred to the conduct of above boy. Subsequently, it was brought out in the course of investigation that, when she was taken to Ervadi, she had stayed with Ramseena in the company of one Sarath, Sachin, Bipin. It is alleged that during their stay at Rameswaram and Ervadi, the above persons had sexually abused the girl. It is stated that, after return, she disclosed it to her elder sister. Crime No. 742/2017 was registered. In the course of investigation, Ramseena was arrested on 5/4/2017 and is arrayed as the first accused. Bipin was arrested on 11/4/2017. The allegation in Crime No. 743/2017 is that, utilizing her considerable influence over the family, Ramseena had subsequently persuaded the elder child, who is 17-year-old girl, to accompany her to Ervadi. .. Hence, it is clear that if Ramseena is granted bail at this point of time, she is likely to interfere in the course of judicial process and also to attempt to threaten and coerce the witnesses. ..

[case 225]
Arising Out of PS. Case No. -20 Year-2018 Thana- MAHILA P. S. District- Rohtas
======================================================
Sunita Pandey, W/o Binod Kumar Pandey, R/o Mohalla-Gaurakshani (Gajradh), P. S. - Sasaram, DIST- Rohtas, BIHAR.
. .. .. . Appellant
1. The State of Bihar
2. Binod Kumar Pandey S/o Parshuram Pandey R/O Village- Sidhabadh, P. S. - Itadih, Dist- Buxar
3. Ashok Kumar Pandey @ Daya Pandey S/o Parshuram Pandey R/o Village- Sidhabadh, P. S. - Itadih, Dist- Buxar
4. Urmila Devi W/o Shambhu Choubey R/V- Devariya, P. S. - Niwaon, Dist- Kaimur
. .. .. . Respondents
======================================================
For the Appellant/s: Mr. Ravindra Kumar Shukla, Advocate
For the Respondent/s: Mr. Bipin Kumar, APP
======================================================
COURT: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJEEV RANJAN PRASAD and HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. B. PD. SINGH
ORAL JUDGMENT (Per: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJEEV RANJAN PRASAD)
Date: 09-01-2025
Heard learned counsel for the appellant and learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State. The trial court records have been received.
This appeal against the judgment of acquittal has been preferred for setting aside the judgment dated 24. 02. 2024 passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge-IV, Rohtas at Sasaram in Sessions Trial No. 411 of 2018 arising out of Dehri Rohtas Mahila P. S. Case No. 20 of 2018. The prosecution story is based on the written report submitted by Sunita Pandey. The informant states that she was married on 12. 06. 2010 with Binod Kumar Pandey and alleges being tortured for dowry. After verbatim details of charges, the report refers to the outcome of the trial in which the accused were acquitted. The learned trial court concluded that the prosecution could not establish its case beyond reasonable doubt and therefore acquitted the accused persons. Therefore, the grounds of this appeal now rest on the claim that there was indeed sufficient evidence to prove her case of cruelty and even attempted murder, yet the trial court rendered an unjust decision during the proceedings.

[case 226]
Nitesh @ Bala Kisan Vanve vs The State Of Maharashtra And Anr on 5 April, 2021. At the outset it is required to be noted that since the allegations against the appellant are in respect of the alleged sexual assault, the identity of the appellant and Respondent No. 2 needs to be concealed, and they are referred to as 'ABC' and 'XYZ'. The Registry is directed to maintain the record accordingly. Being aggrieved by the order dated 19. 12. 2017 passed below Exhibit-3 in Special Case No. 422 of 2017 passed by Additional Sessions Judge, Pune, thereby rejecting the prayer of the appellant to release him on bail, this appeal is filed. Learned counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the appellant was arrested on 27th June 2017 by Bharti Vidyapeeth Police Station and offence is registered by them punishable under Section 376 (2)(n) of Indian Penal Code read with Section 4, 8, and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Section 3(1)(r), 3(1)(w), 3(2)(v) of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The allegation against the appellant is that the appellant was residing in the locality where he had made an acquaintance with the victim girl and during the period between 2016 to January 2017, the appellant has committed the above-mentioned offences. After registration of FIR, charge sheet came to be filed and thus Special Case No. 422 of 2017 was registered. It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant that prima facie there is no case made out against the appellant under section 376 (2)(n) of Indian Penal Code read with Section 4, 8, and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Section 3(1)(r), 3(1)(w), 3(2)(v) of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 and there is no direct or indirect connection of the appellant with the alleged offence. Learn PP appearing for Respondent-State invites our attention to the statement of victim girl and other accompaniments of the charge sheet and submits that the appellant has committed very serious offence, therefore, appeal may not be entertained. If the case of the appellant is considered in the light of evidence collected by the Investigating Officer, the involvement of the appellant has been disclosed in alleged commission of offence.

[case 227]
Shubham Kumar vs The State Of Bihar on 27 January, 2025. These batches of writ petitions involve identical questions of fact and law therefore, the aforesaid writ petitions are decided by a common judgment. In all the writ petitions the petitioner on the date of commission of the offense was a juvenile in conflict with the law after their arrest they prayed for bail before the Juvenile Justice Board, and the prayer for bail was rejected the petitioner preferred to appeal before the Learned Special Judge, Children's court in their respective jurisdiction. By impugned orders, and appeal being dismissed the petitioners have preferred the above-mentioned writ petitions. In criminal revision no. 592/2023, the CICL has been in remand home since 11. 10. 2023 in connection with P. S. Case No. 160/2022 registered under sections 147, 148, 323, 376, 313, 379, 504, 506 IPC and Section 4 and 6 of the POSCO Act for committing the offence of rape upon a minor continuously for 3 years upon the girl aged about 14 years. After the F. I. R. was lodged against the petitioner, the petitioner claimed his plea of juvenility. After proper inquiry, the petitioner was held to be juvenile vide order dated 15/03/2023 by the Juvenile Justice Board, Purnia as the date of birth of the petitioner as per his educational certificate and Aadhar Card is 01/01/2005. In criminal revision no. 808/2023, the CICL has been in custody since 10th Oct 2022 in connection with Bihta case no. 1031 of 2022 registered under sections 376(D)/ 379/34 of the IPC. It is ascertained from the facts mentioned in the petition that the petitioner was not mentioned in the FIR and he was arrested in connection with the above-mentioned case based on a statement made by the co-accused under section 164 of Crpc. The petitioner was also not produced in the TI Parade for identification. He has been in custody since 10th October 2022. In criminal revision no. 40/ 2024, the Petitioner was arrested in connection with Nanpur case number 88/2023 under Section 376(a)(b)/ 354 IPC and Section 4/6 of the POCSO Act for committing the offence of rape upon a minor aged about 4 years. The petitioner was not named in the FIR. On the date of commission of the alleged offence, he was aged about 13 years and a few months. It is alleged that the Petitioner was unlawfully implicated in the aforesaid case.

[case 228]
This Criminal Miscellaneous Petition. .. vs Judge on 21 February, 2022. This Criminal Miscellaneous Petition is filed to suspend the sentence imposed against the petitioner in Special S. C. No. 5 of 2019, dated 21/02/2022 by the Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under POCSO Act, Madurai and enlarge the petitioner on bail pending disposal of the criminal appeal. The case of the prosecution is that the petitioner called the victim girl aged about 9 years very often and sexually abused her by giving 10 rupees or 20 rupees for each occasion and thereafter, threatened the victim girl that in case if she inform the incident to her parents, he would cut her throat. On the basis of the complaint, FIR came to be registered in Crime No. 9 of 2018 for the offence under sections 5(m), 5(1) and 6 of the protection of Child From Sexual Offices Act, 2012 and subsequently, the case was altered into Sections 5(m), 5(1) and 6 of Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Section 506 (i) IPC. After completing investigation, the respondent police has laid the final report for the offences under sections 5(m), 5(1) and 6 of Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Section 506(i) IPC as against the petitioner/accused. To prove the prosecution case, 11 witnesses have been examined and 13 documents were marked, apart from that one Court exhibit as Ex. C1. On the side of the accused, one witness, but exhibit was marked. At the conclusion of trial, the trial Court found that the case against the accused was proved, convicted this petitioner and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 20 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- with default clause for the offence under section 5(m), 5(1) and 5(i) r/w 6 of POCSO Act. Challenging the same, the accused has filed the appeal. Pending appeal, this miscellaneous petition is filed seeking suspension of sentence. Heard both sides. Perusal of the records shows that the appellant argued the main appeal before my predecessor and posted for respondent side argument. Now change of roster, the matter has to argue the main appeal, in the meantime, I find no specific ground made by the petitioner in this petition. Accordingly, this criminal miscellaneous petition dismissed. The appellant is directed to argue the main appeal afresh. Index: Yes/No Internet: Yes/No

[case 229]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED 01. 06. 2016 CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. N. PRAKASH Crl. O. P. No. 8911 of 2016 Srinivasan. .. Petitioner Vs. State Rep. By The Inspector of Police, G-9, Perunagar Police Station, Kancheepuram District. (Crime No. 290 of 2015). .. Respondent Petition filed under Section 482 Cr. P. C. seeking to transfer the investigation to CBCID, Kancheepuram. For Petitioner: Mr. M. Mohamed Hasai For Respondent: Mr. C. Emalias, Additional Public Prosecutor ORDER It is the case of the petitioner that his daughter X, a minor girl, was subjected to sexual abuse by one Srinivasan and that she delivered a child on 28. 09. 2015. On a complaint lodged by the petitioner, the respondent Police registered a case in Cr. No. 290 of 2015 for the offence under Section 4 of POCSO Act and Sections 294 (b) and 506(i) IPC against Srinivasan, who was arrested by Police and has now been released on bail. It is the grievance of the petitioner that the investigation is not going on a right line and therefore, he sought for transfer of the same to any Specialized Agency. This Court perused the case diary. Statement of the victim girl has been recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C. and she has also been subjected to medical examination. It is the further grievance of the petitioner that the Police have not taken any steps to have the DNA Profiling done between the accused and child. A copy of the statement recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C. is not available in the case diary. In a case of this nature, it would be sufficient, if the victim girl gives evidence with general corroboration from other sources. Under such circumstances, this Court is of the view, it is not a fit case to transfer the investigation to any other agency. Under such circumstances, this Court, in the interest of justice, directs the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Madhuranthagam, to supervise the investigation in Cr. No. 290 of 2015. The Inspector of Police, Uthiramerur, is directed to proceed with the investigation of the case by taking steps to have the DNA Profiling of the accused and child done by moving the jurisdictional Court. If the accused does not co-operate with the DNA Profiling, it is open to the Police to move an application for cancellation of his bail. With the above direction, this Criminal Original Petition is closed.

[case 230]
The present petition has been filed by the petitioner under Articles 226/227 of the Constitution of India read with Section 528 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short 'BNSS') seeking issuance of a writ in the nature of Habeas Corpus for the release of detenues, namely Gurleen Kaur and Ashbeer Singh, who are daughter son of the present petitioner, from the illegal custody of respondents No. 4 and 5 and to produce them before this Court. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the marriage of the petitioner was solemnized with respondent No. 4-Banti Singh on 04. 07. 2013 and two children i. e. daughter Gurleen Kaur and son Ashbeer Singh (alleged detenues) have born out of the wedlock, who are aged about 10 years and 05 years respectively and presently, they are studying in a school at Abohar. The petitioner is working as Senior Constable in Punjab Police and presently, she is posted at Fazilka. It is further submitted that respondent No. 4 was indulged in wrong activities and has been involved in a case relating to offence under Section 376 of IPC. He is also involved in a case under the NDPS Act. Not only this, he is involved in a murder case also. He was also indulged in adultery as he has developed illicit relationship with a lady. The petitioner is not earning anything. When the petitioner stopped her from doing all this, he started extending beatings to her and ultimately, she was turned out of her matrimonial home. The petitioner had moved an application under Section 100 of BNSS before the SDM, Fazilka for handing over the custody of the children to her but vide order dated 02. 01. 2025, it was wrongly observed by him that the children were happily residing with respondent. However, a conversation which took place between the petitioner and her children has been placed on record before this Court in the form of a Compact Disc and it would reveal that in fact respondent No. 4 uses abusive language with them and also beats them. Learned counsel for the petitioner has further argued that the petitioner, being mother of the children, is legally entitled to get their custody. The children have been forcefully detained by respondent No. 4, who is not taking his proper care and for the welfare and wellbeing of the child, his custody must be handed over to the petitioner.

[case 231]
Sivapirakasam vs / on 22 June, 2022 The appellant herein was charged for offences under Sections 366 IPC, 294(b) IPC (4 counts), Section 506(1) IPC (4 counts) and Section 3 r/w 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short POCSO Act) and Sections 3 (1) (r) and 3(1)(s) of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 and tried before the Mahila Court, Perambalur. The prosecution to prove these charges examined 23 witnesses, marked 21 exhibits and 6 material objects. The trial Court, on appreciating the evidence, held him guilty of offences under Section 366 IPC and Section 3 r/w 4 of the POCSO Act. The case of the prosecution as unfurled through its witnesses reveals that, the accused Sivaprakasam aged 60 years and the minor victim girl (PW-2) aged about 15 years belong to same village. On 27/11/2016, at 4. 00 p. m. the accused offered the minor girl to teach two wheeler driving and asked the minor girl to come to Mottaiyan Kulam. When the minor girl came to Mottaiyan Kulam, the accused took her in his TVS XL bearing Reg. No. TN46 R 7040 (M. O 5) to an isolated place near Kattupakkam mud road on the Ariyalur Bye-pass and had forcible intercourse with her. Then, he took her to a tea shop at Nochikuppam and got water for her to drink. Thereafter he dropped her at Ariyalur Busstand. The victim girl stayed with gypsies on the whole night in the bus stand. At about 11. 00 a. m, her paternal uncle and aunty saw her near the bus stand weeping and they brought her home. Meanwhile, when Manjula (P. W-1) the mother of the minor girl found her daughter missing started searching for her. One Selvam (P. W-8) of her village informed PW-1 that he saw PW-2 going with the accused in TVS XL near Mottaiyankulam. When her husband and others went to the house of the accused and enquired about the PW-2, he admitted that he took her to Ariyalur to teach two wheeler riding and left her at Baduvakadu. He threatened them of dire consequence, if they give any complaint to the police and also called them by their caste and abused them. The missing girl, who was brought home by Samidurai (PW-4) and Sasikala (PW-5), informed her mother PW-1 about the aggravated sexual offence committed by the accused and thereafter, she went to the police and gave the complaint Ex. P-1.

[case 232]
Sivakumar vs State Rep. By on 27 March, 2018. BEFORE THE MADURAI BENCH OF MADRAS HIGH COURT Dated: 27. 03. 2018 Orders Reserved on: 01. 03. 2018 Orders Pronounced on: 27. 03. 2018 CORAM THE HONOURABLE DR. JUSTICE S. VIMALA AND THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE T. KRISHNAVALLI Crl. A. (MD) No. 330 of 2016. Sivakumar. .. Appellant/Sole Accused -vs- State Rep. by The Inspector of Police, Lalgudi All Women Police Station, Trichy District. (Crime No. 14 of 2012). .. Respondent/Complainant. Prayer: Appeal filed under Section 374(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure praying to call for the records in pertaining to the judgment dated 17. 08. 2015 made in S. C. No. 98 of 2013 on the file of the Sessions Judge Mahila Court, Trichirappalli and set aside the same by way of allowing the appeal and pass such further or other order as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case and thus render justice. For Appellant: Mr. S. A. Ajmal Khan Amicus Curiae For Respondent: Mr. S. Chandrasekar Addl. Public Prosecutor: Judgment S. VIMALA. J? Neither my husband told me that he has been convicted by the Court and he had to suffer life imprisonment nor my cousin sister told me that she is one of the partners responsible for sending my husband to jail and for the mistake committed by both of them, punishment has been imposed upon me and my minor son. ? - This is the statement of the wife of the accused, the real victim of the crime committed by the husband and the cousin sister, thereby giving birth to a child. 2. Who is the victim of the crime committed by the accused? Is it the wife and the two children, who are the legal heirs of the accused? Is it the so called victim girl and her child fathered by the accused? 3. It is the case of the prosecution that the accused, who is the husband of one Selvi had illicit intimacy with the cousin sister of his wife, namely, minor victim (name changed) had illegal intercourse with the victim with a promise of marriage. On account of the intercourse, she became pregnant and the parents came to know about the pregnancy only after seven months of her pregnancy. The parents wanted the Doctor to abort the foetus, but the Doctor refused to abort. Only thereafter, the father of the victim girl preferred a complaint before Lalgudi All Women Police Station. ..

[case 233]
Sivakumar vs State Rep. By on 27 March, 2018. BEFORE THE MADURAI BENCH OF MADRAS HIGH COURT Dated: 27. 03. 2018 Orders Reserved on: 01. 03. 2018 Orders Pronounced on: 27. 03. 2018 CORAM THE HONOURABLE DR. JUSTICE S. VIMALA AND THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE T. KRISHNAVALLI Crl. A. (MD) No. 330 of 2016. Sivakumar. .. Appellant/Sole Accused -vs- State Rep. by The Inspector of Police, Lalgudi All Women Police Station, Trichy District. (Crime No. 14 of 2012). .. Respondent/Complainant. Prayer: Appeal filed under Section 374(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure praying to call for the records in pertaining to the judgment dated 17. 08. 2015 made in S. C. No. 98 of 2013 on the file of the Sessions Judge Mahila Court, Trichirappalli and set aside the same by way of allowing the appeal and pass such further or other order as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case and thus render justice. For Appellant: Mr. S. A. Ajmal Khan Amicus Curiae For Respondent: Mr. S. Chandrasekar Addl. Public Prosecutor: Judgment S. VIMALA. J? Neither my husband told me that he has been convicted by the Court and he had to suffer life imprisonment nor my cousin sister told me that she is one of the partners responsible for sending my husband to jail and for the mistake committed by both of them, punishment has been imposed upon me and my minor son. ? - This is the statement of the wife of the accused, the real victim of the crime committed by the husband and the cousin sister, thereby giving birth to a child. 2. Who is the victim of the crime committed by the accused? Is it the wife and the two children, who are the legal heirs of the accused? Is it the so called victim girl and her child fathered by the accused? 3. It is the case of the prosecution that the accused, who is the husband of one Selvi had illicit intimacy with the cousin sister of his wife, namely, minor victim (name changed) had illegal intercourse with the victim with a promise of marriage. On account of the intercourse, she became pregnant and the parents came to know about the pregnancy only after seven months of her pregnancy. The parents wanted the Doctor to abort the foetus, but the Doctor refused to abort. Only thereafter, the father of the victim girl preferred a complaint before Lalgudi All Women Police Station.

[case 234]
BETWEEN Khadar Khan @ Saddu, S/o. Hinayath Khan, Aged about 19 years, Residing at Near Billal Maszid, Yarabnagara, Ramanagara Town-571511. .. .Petitioner (By Sri. A. B. Dinakar, Advocate)
AND State of Karnataka, By Ramanagara Town Police Rep. by Public Prosecutor, High Court Building, Bangalore-560001. .. .Respondent (By Sri. K. Nageshwarappa, HCGP)
This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of Criminal Procedure Code praying to enlarge the petitioner on bail in Cr. No. 154/2017 (Spl. C. No. 185/2017) of Ramanagara Town P. S. , Ramanagara District for the offence punishable under section 506 of IPC and Sections 4, 6, 9(m) of POCSO Act.
This Criminal Petition coming on for orders this day, the court made the following: ORDER
This is a petition under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
The respondent-police registered a complaint against the petitioner in Crime No. 154/2017 for offence under Section 506 IPC and Sections 4, 6 and 9 of POCSO Act. The alleged offence is that on 15. 9. 2017, the petitioner took the victim girl on his motor cycle to a distant place and sexually abused her. The police held investigation and filed charge sheet on 8. 12. 2017.
The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that so far this child statement is not recorded. He also submits that the petitioner is the only bread earner of the family and that his father is physically handicapped.
According to Section 34 of the POCSO Act, the statement of the victim child should be recorded within thirty days after taking cognizance.
Having regard to the aforesaid circumstances, the petition is allowed. Petitioner shall be released on bail in connection with Crime No. 154/2017 registered by respondent-police on his executing bond for a sum of Rs. 1, 00, 000/- (Rupees One Lakh only) and providing two sureties for the likesum to the satisfaction of the trial Court. The petitioner is also subjected to the following conditions: 1) He shall regularly appear before the Court during trial. 2) He shall not threaten the witnesses and tamper the prosecution evidence. Sd/- JUDGE.

[case 235]
The facts of the case as borne out from the record are that on 24. 04. 2014, on receipt of a PCR call video DD no. 89B at 7. 55 pm regarding an attempt of rape with a four year old girl, near Mother Dairy, Chand Market of P2, Sultan Puri, SI Sharwan reached at the spot i. e. P85, Krishan Vihar, Sultan Puri and on inquiry, he found that the matter was pertaining to sexual assault upon child S (hereinafter referred as child victim), a minor girl aged about 5 years and thereafter, on his request, PW10 SI Lata Sachdeva along with L/Ct. Sudesh reached at the spot. At the spot, SI Sharwan, Smt. Seema, mother of child victim and child victim met PW10 W/SI Lata Sachdeva and PW6 Sanjay, husband of Seema produced accused Mahender before her. PW10 called the NGO official at the spot and after counseling the mother of the child victim, she recorded her statement, wherein she stated that on 24. 04. 2014, at about 7. 00 pm, child victim was going to a nearby temple and she was busy in her household work and after 10/15 minutes, child victim returned home weeping and on inquiry, child victim told her that when she was going to temple, one boy, resident of backside gali, forcibly took her to his house, bolted the door from inside, pulled down his pant upto knee, removed her payjami and underwear and lied upon her and inserted his male organ into her vagina. Child victim further told her that when she started weeping loudly, said boy opened the door and thereafter, she put on her payjami and underwear and rushed to her house. She further stated that she called her husband/PW6 through phone and narrated the entire incident to him and thereafter her husband along with child victim went to the house of accused, where child victim pointed out towards the accused and identified him as the person, who had committed wrong act with her and thereafter, her husband made a call at 100 number and handed over the said boy to the police. She requested for legal action to be taken against the accused. Thereafter, child victim was medically examined at Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital. On the basis of aforesaid statement of PW4, present case FIR was registered. Child victim was also got counseled and her statement u/s 161 was recorded, wherein she also reaffirmed the acts of the accused.

[case 236]
This Transfer Civil Miscellaneous Petition is filed to withdraw the H. M. O. P. No. 361 of 2023 on the file of the Family Court, Thanjavur and transfer the same to the file of the Family Court, Trichy. The case of the prosecution is that the marriage between the petitioner and the respondent was solemnized on 31. 03. 2019 at Thanjavur. At the time of marriage, the petitioner's parents were presented 18 sovereigns of gold jewels and household articles. According to the petitioner, from the date of marriage, the petitioner was put to harassment by her husband / respondent herein, for want of additional dowry. The respondent is having drinking habit. Under the influence of alcohol, he used to abuse the respondent. A male child was born to them on 13. 05. 2020. The petitioner was sent to her parents' home. Even after delivery of the child, the respondent has not come forward to see the petitioner and their child. Hence, the petitioner filed M. C. No. 32 of 2023 before the Family Court, Trichy and the respondent has filed H. M. O. P. No. 361 of 2023 before the Family Court, Thanjavur. Now the petitioner is living with her parents at Trichy. Since the petitioner is not an earning member, she has to take care of her child and since she is a dependant of her parents, she finds it very difficult to attend the Court proceedings at Thanjavur, along with her child and to travel from Trichy to Thanjavur. Hence, this Transfer Civil Miscellaneous Petition came to be filed seeking transfer of the proceedings in H. M. O. P. No. 361 of 2023 on the file of the Family Court, Thanjavur, to the Family Court, Trichy, to be tried along with the proceedings pending in M. C. No. 32 of 2023 before the Family Court, Trichy. In view of the submissions, this Transfer Civil Miscellaneous Petition is allowed. There shall be a direction to the learned Judge, Family Court, Thanjavur, to transfer the entire records in the proceedings in H. M. O. P. No. 361 of 2023 immediately to the file of the Family Court, Trichy. After receiving the records, the learned Judge, Family Court, Trichy may assign new number and conduct joint trial of this case along with the M. C. No. 32 of 2023 pending on his file, after issuing notice to parties for appearance and dispose the case in accordance with law.

[case 237]
Sri. Zabi Ulla vs State By on 4 March, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 4TH DAY OF MARCH, 2025. BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE HEMANT CHANDANGOUDAR CRIMINAL PETITION NO. 5806 OF 2024. The petitioners-accused, who have been charge-sheeted for offences punishable under Sections 363 and 366 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), as well as Sections 3(a), 4, 5(j)(ii), 5(L), and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, are before this Court seeking relief. The prosecution alleges that the petitioners-accused, fully aware that the daughter of petitioner No. 2 (accused No. 2) was a minor at the time of the incident, solemnized her marriage with accused No. 1, and thereafter, accused No. 1 committed forcible sexual intercourse with her. As a result of this wedlock, a girl child was born. The petitioners-accused and the survivor are present before this Court and have filed a joint affidavit stating that the marriage of the daughter of accused No. 2--alleged to be a minor--was solemnized with accused No. 1 due to inadvertence and ignorance of the law. The affidavit further states that from the said wedlock, a girl child was born who is approximately six months old as of today, and that if the petitioners-accused are subjected to trial, it would result in their incarceration, thereby causing additional agony and misery. It is also stated that the survivor and her child are solely dependent on the petitioners-accused for their daily needs. Although the offences are cognizable and non-compoundable, considering that the survivor is approximately 19 years and 4 months old as of today and that a baby girl was born from the wedlock between accused No. 1 and the survivor, subjecting the petitioners-accused to trial would result in their incarceration, thereby causing further misery and agony to the survivor and the child rather than serving the ends of justice. Moreover, the petitioners-accused are illiterate, and the marriage was performed due to ignorance of the law. Under these circumstances, the continuation of criminal proceedings would constitute an abuse of the process of law. Accordingly, the petition is allowed.

[case 238]
Manu Sharma vs State Of U. P. And Another on 4 December, 2019. This application under Section 482 Cr. P. C. has been filed by Manu Sharma with a prayer for quashing the charge sheet dated 14. 02. 2017 as well as entire proceeding of Criminal Case No. 195 of 2017 (State Vs. Manu Sharma), arising out of Case Crime No. 204 of 2017, under Section 376 I. P. C. & Section 3/4 POCSO Act, P. S. Majhaula, District Moradabad, pending in the Court of Additional District Judge, Court No. 12 / POCSO Act, Moradabad. Learned counsel for applicant argued that it was a case of consensual physical relation, wherein prosecutrix was major. She was not examined for medical age determination because her certificate of High School regarding date of birth was with I. O. and as per above certificate her date of birth was 09. 03. 1999. It was mentioned in report at page no. 60. The occurrence of rape was said to be of November, 2016. It came to notice of the parents of prosecutrix when she was under pain in her abdomen and she was examined under ultrasound scanning, wherein she was held to be pregnant for three and half months. Report was not got lodged at that moment. Rather as per statement of complainant and his wife an attempt was made for getting marriage solemnized in between prosecutrix and applicant, which was said to be refused by applicant's parents. Thereafter, this case crime number was got registered. In ultrasound examination report, age has been said to be 19 years by prosecutrix and this document has been filed by prosecution side itself. Hence, it was a case of age running in between one and two months either way as to whether minor or major, but as per record of prosecution itself, it was a case of major because prosecutrix in her statement exchanged through hike messenger, in part of this document has said to be of year 1998, but date of birth written in school record was of 09. 03. 1999. On this score too she was major. It was a case of consensual physical relation wherein prosecutrix is still in conversation with applicant and he is still ready to marry with her, but her parents got this false case lodged and under defective investigation, charge sheet was filed, whereas applicant is innocent. It was misuse of process of law. ..

[case 239]
Md. Manjur Sah @ Manjur Sah @ Md. Manjura. .. vs The State Of Bihar on 14 February, 2025. The petitioner is apprehending his arrest in connection with Mahila P. S. Case No. 10 of 2024 registered for the offence under Sections 341, 323, 498-A, 504, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and section  of the Dowry Prohibition Act, lodged on 03. 03. 2024 by the informant Reshma Khatoon. The allegation in the FIR that the lady was married to this petitioner and was given the dowry. With the passing of time, she was blessed with a female child whereafter the attitude of the petitioner changed and she was tortured and subsequently, allegation is that he also brought a new lady claiming herself to his second-wife. To her further agony, the accused persons including the petitioner stop providing food to the informant and finally she was thrown out of the house. When the parents along with locals visited the place where abused/assaulted. Left with no remedy, the FIR was lodged. Earlier, this Court granted long rope to the petitioner to come to terms and in between the matter was also sent for mediation but as per the Mediator's report dated 01. 10. 2024, the same could not be resolved. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that only because he has consummated second marriage, the present case has been lodged. She has not been tortured for dowry and he is ready to keep her. Learned counsel for the informant on the other hand opposes the prayer submitting that a bare perusal of the FIR would show that the allegation is that: (i) she was tortured for dowry; (ii) he married again; (iii) she was not provided food and finally thrown out of the home; (iv) when the family members along with villagers wanted to resolve the issue, abused. Having gone through the facts of the case and the submissions put forward by the parties, certainly, the kind of allegation that has come against the petitioner, he does not deserve the anticipatory bail. There is not only allegation of torture for dowry, she was kept without food causing her physical and mental agony, ultimately thrown out of the house and in that background, it would be appropriate that he seeks bail. Accordingly, the anticipatory bail application stands rejected.

[case 240]
X vs State Of Nct Of Delhi (Acting Through Its. .. on 20 October, 2022. The present case raises important questions regarding the child survivors of sexual abuse. Child sexual abuse (hereinafter called "CSA") has been interpreted by the World Health Organisation (hereinafter called "WHO") as the involvement of a child in sexual activity that he or she does not fully comprehend, is unable to give informed consent to, or for which the child is not developmentally prepared and cannot give consent, or that violates the laws or social taboos of society. In a study, it was found that about 37% of India's population comprises children under 18, while around 53% of Indian children reported experiencing different kinds of abuse. The impact of the sexual offence is rightly pointed out in Bodhisattwa Gautam v. Subhra Chakraborty, wherein the Supreme Court reiterated that "Rape is not only a crime against the person of a woman (victim), it is a crime against the entire society. It destroys the entire psychology of a woman and pushed her into deep emotional crises. .. " Owing to various emotional, social, and cultural factors, CSA survivors may not be able to express their feelings and experiences. The main rationale for this is that children are traumatized and are unsure of the proper words to express their encounter. CSA has long-lasting negative effects on mental health. The criminal claims the survivors life, if not physically then affecting their mental and emotional state. It, thus, becomes imperative that the survivor of the crime is not overlooked and rehabilitation for the sufferings of the survivor is not overlooked. There is duty cast on the State to protect their rights and deliver justice to the survivors. This justice, in the form of compensation, should be given its liberal meaning thereby giving the maximum benefit and as quickly as possible. The Law Commissions 154th Report (1996) on reforms in criminal procedure discussed concerns related to victimology.  A whole branch has evolved to make the victim the focus of their study. The tools employed by this study include an understanding of the victim-offender relationship, assessing, and possible ways for compensating the victims.

[case 241]
This criminal appeal has been filed to call for the records in Spl. S. C. No. 121 of 2019 on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases Under POCSO Act, Cuddalore and set aside the conviction and sentence imposed upon the appellant by a judgment dated 08. 01. 2021 by allowing this appeal. The respondent police registered a case in Crime No. 117 of 2019 against the appellant for the offence under Sections 294(b), 324, 354-C and 354-A IPC and also for the offence under Section 7 punishable under Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as 'POCSO Act' for short). After investigation, the Respondent Police laid a charge sheet before the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases Under POCSO Act, Cuddalore. After framing charges, in order to prove the case of the prosecution during trial, as many as 11 witnesses were examined as PW. 1 to PW. 11 and 9 documents were marked as Ex. P1 to Ex. P9 on the side of the prosecution. On completion of trial, after hearing the arguments advanced on either side and considering the materials, the Special Court found that the appellant/accused was not guilty for the offence under Section 354-C IPC. However, found that the appellant/accused was guilty for the offence under Sections 294(b), 323 and 354-A IPC and Section 7 which is punishable under Section 8 of POCSO Act and he was convicted and sentenced as follows: Under Sections 294(b) and 323 IPC Imposed a fine of Rs. 500/- each in default to undergo one month simple imprisonment for each of the offences. Convicted and Sentenced to undergo three years rigorous imprisonment and Under Section 354-A IPC imposed a fine of Rs. 1000/- in default to undergo one month simple imprisonment. Convicted and Sentenced to undergo five years rigorous imprisonment and Under Section 7 which is punishable under Section 8 of POCSO Act imposed a fine of Rs. 2, 000/- in default to undergo further period of three months simple imprisonment. Challenging the said judgment of conviction and sentence passed by the Special Court, the appellant/accused has filed the present criminal appeal before this Court.

[case 242]
These Criminal Appeals are directed against the judgment of the Sessions Judge/Fast Track Court Mahaila Court, Thoothukudi, in Spl. SC No. 3 of 2014, dated 06. 07. 2015. The case of the prosecution is that prior three months to 30. 08. 2013, all the accused on different occasions had individually called the victim Mariselvi to their houses made her lie down on the floor undressed her full skirt and inserted the penis into her vagina and committed penetrative sexual assault and further more, A1 enticed the child by showing obscene pictures through CD and forced her to act of such. The Inspector of Police attached to All Women Police Station has filed a final report against the accused persons examining the witnesses.
The trial court after careful perusal of the entire materials available on record, A1 to A3 found guilty under section 5(l) r/w 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and each are convicted and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 2, 000/-, in default each to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 1 month. Aggrieved over the same, A1 to A3 are before this court as appellants by filing these criminal appeals.
In this case, PW2 is the victim, and PW1 is the mother of the victim. In respect of the place of occurrence, Exs. P14 and Ex. P16 (Rough Sketches) were marked. On perusal of Exs. P14 and Ex. P16, it reveals that the place of occurrence is shown as the house of A1 to A3. PW2 during her chief examination stated that A2 took her to his cement shop and subjected her to sexual intercourse. Further, the evidence of PW2 is corroborated with the evidence of PW1, PW5 and PW10/Doctor. The victim deposed about the sexual intercourse by all the accused and the rupture of hymen proved that the victim was subject to sexual assault. Considering the whole aspects of the matter and the evidence of the prosecution in the proper perspective, it is clear that all the three accused persons had committed sexual assault on victim twice each. All the accused very much ravished one after another and so it is proved that there was repeated penetrative sexual assault.

[case 243]
Laljibhai S/O. Babubhai Ramjibhai. .. vs State Of Gujarat & on 30 March, 2016
IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION (FOR QUASHING & SET ASIDE FIR/ORDER) NO. 3433 of 2016
LALJIBHAI S/O. BABUBHAI RAMJIBHAI BABARIYA KODI. .. .Applicant(s)
STATE OF GUJARAT & 1. .. .Respondent(s)
MR PAWAN A BAROT, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
MR. RAJESH B CHAVDA, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
DS AFF. NOT FILED (N) for the Respondent(s) No. 2
Mr. J. K. Shah, APP for the Respondent(s) No. 1
CORAM: HONOURABLE MS JUSTICE SONIA GOKANI
Date: 30/03/2016
Rule returnable today. Learned APP Mr. J. K. Shah waives service of notice of rule for and on behalf of them.
This Criminal Misc. Application is preferred under Section 482 of Cr. P. C for quashment of complaint being FIR No. I-CR No. 119 of 2012 registered with Kalavad Police Station, Jamnagar for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366 and 376 of IPC and under Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO'). The complainant is duly served with the notice. Mr. R. V. Vinchi, Police Sub Inspector of Kalavad Town Police Station is present before this Court. According to him, complainant has no resistance, as the prosecutrix girl has already married to the applicant. It appears from the record that the applicant and the prosecutrix are having a child of 1 and  years old. The officer has also ensured that he shall further facilitate amicable settlement between the complainant and daughter. Considering the fact that the relationship of the applicant and the prosecutrix is already converted into a legal relationship of that of wife and the husband and when a child is already begotten out of the said wedlock, no useful purpose is likely to be served in continuing the criminal proceedings in wake of the chronology of events. The prosecution since is not going to result into conviction, the said litigation need not be continued any longer. Bearing in mind the decision of the Apex Court rendered in case of Gian Singh Vs. State of Punjab and Anr. , reported in 2012 (10)SCC 303. The request of the applicant to quash FIR needs to be acceded to.

[case 244]
Upon grant of leave, the State preferred the present appeal against the judgment dated 09. 06. 2016 delivered by the learned Additional Sessions Judge -01, South East District, Saket Courts, New Delhi in Sessions Case No. 79/2013 titled as State vs. Samay Chand, arising out of FIR No. 19/2013 registered under Section 363/323/342/377 IPC at Police Station Govind Puri, Delhi, whereby the accused/respondent was acquitted from the charges leveled against him. The facts in brief are that on 11. 01. 2013 at 2. 48 hours, an information was received by the police about a quarrel at house no. 330-B Block, Pocket-4, Navjeewan Camp, Govindpuri which was recorded vide DD No. 46B (Mark-A). The said DD was marked to SI Ramakant (PW-13) for inquiry who reached at the spot and met the complainant. The complainant gave her statement that on that day at about 12 noon, her son S aged 6 years was playing with another boy I (also mentioned as M in the impugned judgment) aged about 5 years on the roof, and after some time both of the boys were not found there. Searches were made to trace them and announcements were made through loudspeakers from Mosque, but they could not be found. At about 2 p. m. , son of the complainant came weeping and told that they were playing on the roof when uncle Samay Chand- the accused, who was residing at the backside, came and allured them on the pretext of moving boxes and took them to his house where they were confined in a room. Then the accused removed the pants of the boys and also opened his pant to do wrong act with them. Accused tried to insert his penis into the anus of the son of the complainant, upon which they both started weeping. Accused tied a cloth (chunni) on the mouth of the complainants son S to keep him mum and also gave beatings on his hands by a stick. After hearing the announcement on loudspeaker, the accused let them go. On coming to know about the incident, people went to the house of the accused, upon which he tried to flee, but was caught and was given beatings. The IO met both the children who were found frightened and did not say anything. On the basis of the statement of the complainant (Ex. PW-1/A), FIR was registered.

[case 245]
Through: Mr. Aashneet Singh, APP with WSI Anita Kumari, PS Jama Masjid versus YASIR ALI. .. .. Respondent
Through: Mr. Sudershan Ranjan, JS Kalra, Advs.
CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE JASMEET SINGH
This is an application seeking leave to appeal to challenge the judgment dated 29. 09. 2021 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge (FTSC), (RC) Central District, Tis Hazari Court, Delhi, in Case No. 307/2018 titled "State vs. Yasir Ali" in FIR No. 91/2018 dated 31. 08. 2018 registered at PS Jama Masjid, Central Delhi under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ("IPC").
As per the prosecution, on 31. 08. 2018, at about 4 PM, the prosecutrix visited the shop of the respondent/accused for purchasing clothes for her children. At the shop, suddenly her health deteriorated and she requested the respondent for water. After drinking the water, she started feeling dizzy. The respondent took her towards the back side of his shop and told her that there is a fan and she would be comfortable by taking some rest. It is alleged by the petitioner that the respondent removed her clothes and put his finger in her private part and made her to lie on a bedsheet and raped her. The petitioner on regaining consciousness questioned the respondent as to what he has done with her. At this, the respondent offered her to take any cloth piece from his shop without making any payment. The petitioner, after wearing her clothes, went to the police station and lodged an FIR against the respondent.
After completion of investigation, a charge sheet was filed against the respondent before the concerned Court. Learned Trial Court took the cognizance of the chargesheet and framed the charge under section 376 of IPC against the respondent.
The prosecution examined a total of 12 witnesses and 3 witnesses were examined from the side of the respondent. After recording of the evidence, the learned Trial Court vide impugned judgement dated 29. 09. 2021, acquitted the respondent under Section 376 of IPC. Hence the present appeal is filed by the State.

[case 246]
R. Dakshina Murthy vs State Rep. By on 9 November, 2022. This Criminal Original Petition has been preferred to call for the records in Spl. S. C. No. 20 of 2020, on the file of the learned Special Judge (POCSO Cases) at Puducherry. The case in Spl. S. C. No. 20 of 2020 has arisen out of the FIR registered in Crime No. 158 of 2016 on the complaint given by the second respondent / defacto complainant. The defacto complainant and the accused Logashanmuga Perumal in Crime No. 158 of 2016 are relatives and shared the same household building by residing in separate portions. The allegation is that on 27. 10. 2016 at about 21. 30 hours, the accused Logashanmuga Perumal and Sumathi had assaulted the daughter of the defacto complainant on chest, stomach and private parts and thereby caused bleeding injuries on her and they also assaulted the other daughter of the defacto complainant. When the case was pending for investigation, the present petitioner has also been impleaded as one of the accused on the allegations made by the minor daughters of the defacto complainant about the sexual assault caused on them. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the husband of the defacto complainant and Logashanmuga Perumal / second accused are brothers and the third accused Sumathi is the wife of the second accused; the parents of the second accused, the family of the second accused and the family of the defacto complainant are living separately in three portions of the same building; though the complaint dated 29. 10. 2016 stated about the occurrence that had taken place on 27. 10. 2016, no allegation has been made against the petitioner; since the petitioner in his capacity as an advocate, has filed a petition to quash the FIR against the second and third accused; he has been falsely implicated in this case; even though there is no allegation of sexual assault made in the complaint, the defacto complainant developed these allegations subsequently; 164 Statement obtained from the daughters of the defacto complainant on 21. 01. 2020 and in view of that, the petitioner has been impleaded as an accused; so the allegations are made just to implicate the petitioner in this case.

[case 247]
Sc No. 45/14: Fir No. 410/13: Ps Rani Bagh. .. vs Dharmender @ Dadi on 12 January, 2016 J U D G M E N T: 1. The facts of the case as borne out from the record are that on 21. 11. 2013, after entrustment of DD No. 28A Ex PW18/A, regarding quarrel PW13 HC Jagbir went to the spot i. e. Jhuggi No. 5, Near Nilambar Apartment, Pitampura, Rani Bagh, Delhi and thereafter, as per the directions of Senior officers, PW18 W/SI Upkar Kaur also reached there along with PW7 L/Ct. Ritu and the police party met PW9 Smt. Sona, mother of the child D (hereinafter referred to as 'child victim') and on inquiry, she told PW18 that PW8 Jyoti, daughter of her jethani had told her about the repeated sexual assault committed upon child victim by Gappu @ Ajay (since JCL) and accused Dharmender @ Dadi. On coming to know about this, PW18 got the child victim medically examined at Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital vide MLC Ex. PW5/A and seized her sealed exhibits vide seizure memo Ex. PW7/A. Then, she got the child victim and her mother counseled through a NGO Counselor and recorded the statement of mother of child victim to the effect that on 21. 11. 2013, at about 2. 30 pm, Jyoti, daughter of her jethani, came to call her at her workplace and told her about sexual assault upon child victim, whereafter she returned back to her jhuggie, where she found child victim weeping. On inquiry, Jyoti told her that child victim had told her that Gappu @ Ajay (since JCL) had been doing wrong act with her since last 8/10 days and on one day, accused had also committed wrong act with her. She requested for legal action against both the accused persons. On the basis of the aforesaid statement of the complainant, the present case FIR was registered. During the course of investigation, PW18 prepared the site plan of the place of incident at the instance of complainant. Accused was arrested and his disclosure statement was recorded. Statement of the child victim u/s 164 Cr. P. C was got recorded. Exhibits were sent to the FSL. Documents regarding age of the child victim were collected from her school. After conclusion of the investigation, the charge sheet was prepared and filed in the court.

[case 248]
This is a petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr. P. C) seeking setting aside of order dated 10. 05. 2022 ('impugned order' in short) passed by the court of Learned ASJ-01 (POCSO) New Delhi District, Patiala House Court in Sessions Case No. 209/2018 titled as 'State Vs Pool Singh @ Phool Chand' arising out of FIR No. 145/2018, under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) & 9(K)/10 POCSO Act, PS Vasant Vihar, whereby petitioner's application under Section 311 Cr. P. C for recalling of PW-1/victim for her cross examination, was dismissed. The victim is a special child with mental disability of 50 percent. The present FIR came to be registered on the complaint of the petitioners sister. The complainant stated that on 06. 02. 2018 at about 4 pm, she had left the house along with her younger daughter to bring ration. When she returned home, her daughter S told that her mama (maternal uncle)/petitioner had come in her absence and gave Rs. 100 to her father and sent him to the market to bring some eatables. Thereafter, finding her alone, the petitioner had touched her breasts and when she objected to the same and told him that she will inform her mother, he ran away. After filing of charge sheet, the victim S was cross examined and discharged on 30. 05. 2019. On the other hand, the Learned Prosecutor strongly opposed this petition seeking its dismissal with cost. It is submitted that the victim/PW-1 was cross examined in May 2019 and the application for recalling her was filed nearly after three years of her examination; and even after the parents of the victim i. e. , PW-2 and PW-3 were examined. Nothing prevented the petitioner to take immediate steps if he was so aggrieved. The main plea taken before this court challenging the impugned order declining recalling of victim is, that the proxy counsel could not properly cross examine PW-1 on material particulars and that the same shall prejudice the petitioners case. The special legislation- POCSO Act was brought into being to effectively deal with sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children and to punish the offenders of such heinous crimes against children.

[case 249]
This application is filed under Section 438 of the Cr. P. C. The applicant herein is the accused in Crime No. 1046/2018 of the Poonthura Police Station, registered under Section 11(IV) r/w Sec. 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Section 376(2)(f) of the IPC and Section 3(a) r/w Sections 4 and 5 (n) r/w Sec. 6 of the POCSO. The survivor is a 15 year old child. The applicant herein is the husband of her aunt. According to the survivor child, the applicant had subjected her to sexual abuse while she was in the VIII standard. She went on to state that in the month of July, 2016, the applicant subjected her to penetrative sexual abuse. The learned counsel appearing for the applicant submitted that the applicant had accommodated the survivor and her sister when her mother had gone to Singapore for work. He had maintained the children for years and it was only in the month of March, 2018 that the children had left his house and had joined their grand mother. In the initial statement given to the Police, there was no allegation that he had subjected the child to penetrative sexual intercourse. It was contended by the learned counsel that the applicant is innocent and he was roped in without a just cause. The learned Public Prosecutor submitted that the allegations are grave. The child did not disclose the entire facts initially as the wife of the applicant was also with her. In her 164 statement before the learned Magistrate, the child had stated in detail the gross sexual abuse that she was subjected to by the applicant herein. I have considered the submissions advanced by both sides and have gone through the 164 statement. Prima facie, it appears that there are convincing materials which point to the involvement of the applicant. In that view of the matter, this Court will not be justified in granting an order of pre-arrest bail to the applicant. I direct the applicant to surrender before the Investigating Officer or the court having jurisdiction and seek regular bail. If an application for bail is filed, the same shall be considered and orders shall be passed expeditiously and on its merits. This application is dismissed.

[case 250]
The seminal question which is before the Court at this stage of the proceedings is as to whether in a revision under Section 102 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 20151, in a matter relating to consideration of bail to a 'child in conflict with law', the complainant/victim is to be afforded an opportunity of being heard. The present criminal revision has been filed against the order dated 24. 06. 2021 passed by the Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge POCSO Act, Mathura in Juvenile Criminal Appeal No. 39 of 2021 (Yogesh V. State of U. P. and Ors. ) under Section 101 of the JJ Act, arising out of order dated 24. 05. 2021 passed by Incharge Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board in Case No. 77 of 2020, arising out of Crime No. 568 of 2020, under Sections 147, 148, 149, 323, 342, 302/34 of the India Penal Code at Police Station -Vrindavan, District-Mathura. Heard Shri Saurabh Pandey, appearing along with Shri Suresh Chandra Pandey, learned counsel for the revisionist and Shri Vinod Kant, learned Additional Advocate General assisted by Shri Pankaj Saxena, learned Additional Government Advocate-I for the State-Opposite party. The facts of the case, as reflected from the averments in the affidavit accompanying the memo of revision, indicate that the proceedings were initiated pursuant to an FIR dated 22. 09. 2020 registered as Case Crime no. 568 of 2020, under Sections 147, 148, 149, 323, 342, 302/34 of the Penal Code at Police Station-Vrindavan, District-Mathura. As per the FIR allegations the revisionist along with other co-accused had tied up the victim onto a chaff cutter and had beaten him with sticks till he died, and thereafter, they had fled away from the scene of crime. The postmortem report showed cause of death as shock due to ante-mortem head injury. The statement of the witnesses were recorded during the course of investigation and thereafter the police filed charge sheet under Sections 147, 148, 149, 323, 342, 302/34 of the Penal Code. The age of the revisionist was determined by the Juvenile Justice Board vide order dated 22. 03. 2021, as 16 years 6 months and 16 days on the date of the incident. ..

[case 251]
This Civil Miscellaneous Appeal is filed by the husband, who was unsuccessful in dissolving the marriage through H. M. O. P. No. 211 of 2014 on the file of the Family Court, Srivilliputtur. The case of the appellant is that he married the respondent on 10. 07. 2013 and they both lived together hardly for six months. The respondent did not discharge her duty as a wife and assist him in his daily routine. When she was questioned about the same, she started scolding him in filthy language and there was quarrel between them leading to registration of a criminal complaint. Meanwhile, the respondent also had her own way of life by staying away from the matrimonial home. In this regard, All Women Police Station, Srivilliputtur had enquired the complaint on 03. 10. 2014. They found that the allegation of the respondent is false and closed the complaint as 'mistake of fact'. Therefore, on the ground of cruelty, divorce was sought for by the appellant. The same was opposed by the respondent stating that the allegations of not behaving as a dutiful wife is false. The parents of the appellant used to grab her money and property and they used to abuse her for not bearing a child. She was also physically attacked besides demand of dowry. The parties mounted the witness box and placed evidence in their support. The marriage between the parties is not disputed and also supported by Ex. P1, marriage invitation and Ex. P2, marriage photograph. The medical report of the respondent is marked as Ex. P3. The appellant, who was examined as P. W. 1, had deposed that the respondent had withdrawn the matrimonial company and living separately for 2 years without any reason. Relying upon the medical examination report, Ex. P3, undergoing fibrous tissues and lymphocytes, it was contended that apart from her behaviour, her health condition also does not indicate that she is fit to bear a child. Per contra, the respondent examined herself as R. W. 1 and her brother Mayandi was examined as R. W. 2. The Family Court, after considering the materials placed on record, had dismissed the divorce petition. Being aggrieved, the present Civil Miscellaneous Appeal is filed.

[case 252]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH? Neutral Citation No. - 2025: AHC-LKO: 9937 Court No. - 12 Case: - APPLICATION U/S 482 No. - 963 of 2025 Applicant: - Kalu Ram Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Deptt. Of Home Lko. And 5 Others Counsel for Applicant: - Aman Shankar, Mayuresh Srivastava Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. ,Siddhant Mishra Hon'ble Saurabh Lavania, J. 1. Affidavit(s) of the applicant and the victim/ opposite party No. 7 are taken on record. 2. Heard Sri Aman Shankar, learned counsel for the applicant, learned A. G. A. for the State, Sri Harshit Singh, advocate, who has filed vakalatnama on behalf of opposite party No. 4 and Sri Tarun Mishra, advocate who has filed vakalatnama on behalf of the victim/ opposite party No. 7, which are taken on record. 3. The applicant, opposite party No. 4 (father of the victim) and the victim (opposite party No. 7) are present in person before this Court, who have been duly identified by their respective counsel. 4. The present application u/s 482 has been filed by the applicant for the following main relief: - 'That for the facts and circumstances stated in the accompanying application duly supported by an affidavit, it is expedient in the interest of justice that this Hon'ble Court may graciously be pleased to stay the operation of the impugned Summoning and Cognizance Order dated 03. 01. 2025, passed by the Learned Special Judge (POCSO ACT) 1st, Raebareli (contained in Annexure No. 1), in the case titled State of UP vs. Kaluram, bearing Sessions Trial No. 42 of 2025, emanating from Case Crime Number 662 of 2022, under sections 363/366/376 IPC read with sections 5/6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, P. S. Kotwali Nagar, District Raebareli, whereby the applicant have been summoned under Sections 363/366/376 IPC read with sections 5/6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, taken on Charge Sheet dated 13. 08. 2023, (contained in Annexure No. 2), during the pendency of the application, otherwise the applicant would suffer irreparable loss and injury, which cannot be made good in any event. '

[case 253]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD Case: - CRIMINAL MISC ANTICIPATORY BAIL APPLICATION U/S 438 CR. P. C. No. - 13723 of 2021 Applicant: - Vivek Opposite Party: - State of U. P. and Another Counsel for Applicant: - Krishna Kumar Singh Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, J. Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned AGA for the State and perused the record. This anticipatory bail application has been filed by the applicant Vivek in Case Crime No. 150 of 2021, under sections 354, 506 I. P. C. and Section 7/8 POCSO Act, P. S. Thakurdwara, District Moradabad. The FIR has been lodged by the mother of the victim in respect of incident dated 15. 03. 2021 with the allegation that the applicant and other co-accused persons assaulted the victim with intention to outrage the modesty. The victim is minor and the act of the accused persons forming in the category of sexual abused of the child. Submission of the learned counsel for the applicant is that only for the reason that there was political rivalry a false FIR has been lodged and subsequently during the investigation offence of POCSO Act was added. It has been further submitted that there is no specific allegation against the applicant, the main allegation is against co-accused Dharmendra. Further submission is that when the I. O. asked the victim that which of the accused caught her hand she took the name of the co-accused Dharmendra, therefore, it has been submitted that it is a fit case for anticipatory bail as there is no allegation against the applicant. It is further submitted that applicant has no criminal history and applicant is prepared to furnish sureties and bonds, there is no possibility of her either fleeing away from the judicial process or tampering with the evidence. Learned AGA has vehemently opposed the prayer of bail and has submitted that the investigation is continuing. Considering the submissions of both the sides. The FIR allegations is specific that assault was committed by the accused persons with intention to outrage the modesty of the victim who happens to be minor child.

[case 254]
E. Govindaraj vs M. Bhuvaneshwari on 13 August, 2024. This civil revision petition arises against the order of the learned II Additional District and Sessions Judge, Ranipet, Vellore District, in Criminal Appeal No. 81 of 2023 dated 23. 08. 2023 in confirming the order of the learned District Munsif cum Judicial Magistrate at Ranipet in CMP. No. 1495 of 2022 in DVC. No. 11 of 2021. DVC. No. 11 of 2021 has been presented by the respondents as against the civil revision petitioner. There is no dispute in the relationship between the parties. The petitioner married the first respondent on 06. 02. 2014 at Chengalpet. From the wedlock, the second respondent was born on 04. 09. 2016. The first respondent alleged that the petitioner never used to lend an ear to the troubles that the first respondent was facing or gave her any financial solace during the time they were living together. She would plead that the civil revision petitioner wanted only a boy child, but since a girl child had been born, and that too with health complications, he had forsaken/deserted the mother and child and started living separately. Therefore, she had presented the aforesaid Domestic Violence Petition. On being served with the petition, the husband moved an application invoking the provisions of Order VII Rule 11. The learned Judicial Magistrate, on perusal of the complaint, came to the conclusion that the cause of action exists and therefore, dismissed the application on 04. 01. 2023. On appeal, the appeal was dismissed on 23. 08. 2023. Aggrieved by the same, the present revision has been filed. The wife did not seek any relief under Section 18(1) of the Domestic Violence Act and therefore, she is not entitled to maintain the petition. However, it is argued that under Section 12 of the Act, an application can be filed by an aggrieved lady to claim one or more reliefs. Each relief under Sections 18 to 22 are independent and can be claimed. A reading of the complaint shows there has been verbal, emotional, and economic abuse. Hence, the complaint is maintainable. Therefore, the civil revision petition stands dismissed.

[case 255]
In brief, the case of the prosecution is that the child victim aged about 13 years was studying in 8th class. Accused Pappu was residing at the house of his sister and was neighbor of the child victim. The child victim used to addressed the accused as 'Mama'. The accused used to ask the child victim to come near to him but she used to ignore him. On 24. 05. 2015, when a water tanker came in the street of the child victim and all the people from neighborhood went to take water from the water tanker including the mother and brother of the child victim, the accused Pappu took the child victim to her room despite resistance made by the child victim and he lay down the child victim on the bed and removed her pajami and also took off her clothes. The accused put his private part into the private part of the child victim and after some time let the child victim go by threatening her that if she disclosed the incident to anyone he would kill the child victim and her parents. Similarly, whenever water tanker came to the street of the child victim, such as on 16. 06. 2013, 19. 06. 2013 and 20. 06. 2013, the accused forcibly raped the child victim and also threatened her not to tell to anyone. On 22. 07. 2013 the child victim had pain in her stomach and she told about the same to her mother. The mother of the child victim took her to a nearby doctor who gave some medicine but the child victim did not get any relief, therefore, at the night the mother child victim and her aunt (chachi) took the child victim to DDU Hospital. The child victim was having bleeding. The doctor at DDU hospital informed her that she was pregnant. On this, the mother of the child victim brought the child at home and after reaching at home made a call at 100 number. The police came there. On this complaint, the present case was registered. The child was 8th weeks pregnant on 22. 07. 2013 as informed by the doctors at DDU Hospital. On the consent of the parents of child victim, the abortion of the child victim was done. The child victim remained in the hospital and thereafter she was discharged.

[case 256]
State By Hebbal Police vs Puneeth on 22 December, 2015. IN THE COURT OF THE LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE AT BANGALORE CITY. Present: SMT. VIJAYALAXMI S. UPANAL, M. A. , LL. M. , LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE, BANGALORE CITY. Spl. C. C. No. 463/2014 COMPLAINANT State by Hebbal Police, Bangalore City. (By Learned Public Prosecutor) -Vs - ACCUSED Puneeth, S/o. Late Umesh, 22yrs, R/at. 3rd Cross, B-Narayanapura, Mahadevapura, Bangalore-48. (By Sri. T. D-Advocate. ) 1. Date of commission of offence 15-07-2014 2. Date of report of occurrence 24-07-2014 3. Date of arrest of Accused 26-07-2014 Date of release of Accused 27-12-2014 Period undergone in custody by Accused 05 months & 1 day. 4. Date of commencement of evidence 10-06-2015 5. Date of closing of evidence 18-09-2015 6. Name of the complainant Shashikala 7. Offences complained of Sections 366-A, 376 of IPC & Section 5(l) r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act-2012. 8. Opinion of the Judge Accused found not guilty. 9. Order of sentence As per the final order. JUDGMENT The Police Inspector, Hebbal Police Station, Bangalore has submitted charge sheet against the accused for the offences punishable under Section 363, 366, 376 of IPC and Section 5(l) read with Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 in Crime No. 177/2014. The brief facts of the prosecution case are as under: The accused was in love with Cw. 2-the minor victim girl, aged about 17 years. On 15-07-2014 the accused by inducing the victim minor girl kidnapped her from the custody of her lawful guardian, with an intention to compel her to marry him and raped her forcibly and repeatedly. This case illustrates the complexities of underage relationships and whether the young ages of both parties could affect the legal repercussions involved. It is essential for the judicial system to balance protection for minors while also maintaining the integrity of legal proceedings in cases involving accusations. The case highlights the need for clear guidelines on how to navigate such intimate matters while respecting both the rights of victims and defendants under the law.

[case 257]
E. E. Govindaraj vs M. Bhuvaneshwari on 13 August, 2024. This civil revision petition arises against the order of the learned II Additional District and Sessions Judge, Ranipet, Vellore District, in Criminal Appeal No. 81 of 2023 dated 23. 08. 2023 in confirming the order of the learned District Munsif cum Judicial Magistrate at Ranipet in CMP. No. 1495 of 2022 in DVC. No. 11 of 2021. DVC. No. 11 of 2021 has been presented by the respondents as against the civil revision petitioner. There is no dispute in the relationship between the parties. The petitioner married the first respondent on 06. 02. 2014 at Chengalpet. From the wedlock, the second respondent was born on 04. 09. 2016. The first respondent alleged that the petitioner never used to lend an ear to the troubles that the first respondent was facing or gave her any financial solace during the time they were living together. She would plead that the civil revision petitioner wanted only a boy child, but since a girl child had been born, and that too with health complications, he had forsaken/deserted the mother and child. Therefore, she had presented the Domestic Violence Petition. On being served with the petition, the husband moved an application invoking the provisions of Order VII Rule 11. The learned Judicial Magistrate, on perusal of the complaint, came to the conclusion that the cause of action exists and therefore, dismissed the application on 04. 01. 2023. On appeal, the appeal was dismissed on 23. 08. 2023. Aggrieved by the same, the present revision has been filed. The wife did not seek any relief under Section 18(1) of the Domestic Violence Act and therefore, she is not entitled to maintain the petition. However, it is argued that under Section 12 of the Act, an application can be filed by an aggrieved lady to claim one or more reliefs. Each relief under Sections 18 to 22 are independent and can be claimed. A reading of the complaint shows there has been verbal, emotional, and economic abuse. Hence, the complaint is maintainable. Therefore, the civil revision petition stands dismissed.

[case 258]
E. Govindaraj vs M. Bhuvaneshwari on 13 August, 2024. This civil revision petition arises against the order of the learned II Additional District and Sessions Judge, Ranipet, Vellore District, in Criminal Appeal No. 81 of 2023 dated 23. 08. 2023 in confirming the order of the learned District Munsif cum Judicial Magistrate at Ranipet in CMP. No. 1495 of 2022 in DVC. No. 11 of 2021. DVC. No. 11 of 2021 has been presented by the respondents as against the civil revision petitioner. There is no dispute in the relationship between the parties. The petitioner married the first respondent on 06. 02. 2014 at Chengalpet. From the wedlock, the second respondent was born on 04. 09. 2016. The first respondent alleged that the petitioner never used to lend an ear to the troubles that the first respondent was facing or gave her any financial solace during the time they were living together. She would plead that the civil revision petitioner wanted only a boy child, but since a girl child had been born, and that too with health complications, he had forsaken/deserted the mother and child. Therefore, she had presented the Domestic Violence Petition. On being served with the petition, the husband moved an application invoking the provisions of Order VII Rule 11. The learned Judicial Magistrate, on perusal of the complaint, came to the conclusion that the cause of action exists and therefore, dismissed the application on 04. 01. 2023. On appeal, the appeal was dismissed on 23. 08. 2023. Aggrieved by the same, the present revision has been filed. The wife did not seek any relief under Section 18(1) of the Domestic Violence Act and therefore, she is not entitled to maintain the petition. However, it is argued that under Section 12 of the Act, an application can be filed by an aggrieved lady to claim one or more reliefs. Each relief under Sections 18 to 22 are independent and can be claimed. A reading of the complaint shows there has been verbal, emotional, and economic abuse. Hence, the complaint is maintainable. Therefore, the civil revision petition stands dismissed.

[case 259]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to call for the entire records in pursuant to the charge sheet in SPL. S. C. No. 94 of 2019 in Cr. No. 299 of 2018 dated 11. 08. 2018 pending on the file of the Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under POCSO Act, 2012 at Vellore and quash the same. The brief facts of the case is as follows: - Based on the complaint given by the 2nd respondent/S. Venkatesan/defacto complainant had preferred a complaint on 11. 08. 2018 before the 1st respondent police that his daughter namely V. Jothika (minor aged 17 years) who was studying B. Sc. , 2nd year in Abirami Arts and Science College at Gudiyatham was found missing. The case in Cr. No. 299 of 2018 was registered by the respondent police under the caption "girl missing". Thereafter, during the course of investigation it came to light that the petitioner/A1 had kidnapped the victim from the lawful guardianship of the defacto complainant and had committed an offences punishable under Section 363 and 366 of IPC and in the same incident he had taken her to nearby Amman Temple and the A2, the cousin of the petitioner herein had helped A1 to perform child marriage with the victim by tying thali around the neck of the victim. Thereby, committed an offences punishable under Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 and A2 had committed an offence punishable under Section 10 of the Prohibition of the Child Marriage Act, 2006. In the course of the same incident between 11. 08. 2018 and 15. 08. 2018, the A1 had taken the victim to his house at Sholinghapuram and repeatedly committed penetrative and sexual assault, thereby the petitioner had committed an offences punishable under Section 6 r/w 5(1) of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Thereafter, the respondent after completion of the investigation had filed the final report as against the accused for an offences under Section 5(1), 6 and 17 of Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Sections 363 and 366 of IPC and Sections 9 and 10 of Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929.

[case 260]
The matter is heard through 'Video Conference'. Convicted sole accused is the appellant herein. The appellant is in custody. It is a jail appeal. The criminal appeal is filed against the judgment in S. C. No. 199 of 2011 dated 10. 05. 2017 passed by the learned Sessions Judge, Mahalir Neethimandram, (Fast Track Mahila Court) Vellore, convicting the appellant for offence under (1) Section 365 IPC sentencing him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year with a fine of Rs. 1, 000/- in default to undergo further one month simple imprisonment; (ii) Section 366 IPC and sentencing him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year with fine of Rs. 1, 000/- in default to undergo further one month simple imprisonment; (iii) Section 376(2)(f) IPC (as then existing provision) and sentencing him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for ten years with fine of Rs. 2, 000/- in default to undergo three months simple imprisonment; and (iv) Section 506(ii) IPC and sentencing him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year with fine of Rs. 1, 000/- in default to undergo one month simple imprisonment. The case of the prosecution is that the date of occurrence is 11. 09. 2010 (prior to POCSO Act). The respondent filed charge sheet alleging that on 11. 09. 2010, at about 05. 30 p. m. , at Nethaji Nagar North, while the victim child Jansi (a) Arippa was playing in the playground, the accused with the intention of committing rape, kidnapped the above said victim child and took her to Jamit-e-Islam, an Islamic school building under the pretext that her father was calling her. The accused secretly and wrongfully confined her in the said dilapidated building where he removed her dresses and used criminal force, beaten up her and in furtherance, he committed rape upon her and subsequently with the intention to prevent the disclosure of the crime, he criminally intimidated the victim child that if she reveals the incident to anybody, he would do away with her. Therefore, the accused committed offences punishable under Section 352, 327, 365, 366, 376(f) of IPC.

[case 261]
Smt Neerj Patel vs Vivikandna Patel on 14 February, 2025. The petitioners in M. Cr. C. No. 14988/2023 have filed this petition under Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. seeking quashment of FIR No. 70/2019 and subsequent proceedings. The facts of the case in short are that the marriage of complainant-respondent No. 2 was solemnized on 14. 05. 2015 with Vivekanand Patel as per Hindu customs and rituals. The petitioner No. 1 is the elder brother, petitioner No. 2 is the wife of another brother Late Chandrashekhar Patel (Bhabi) and petitioner No. 3 Saroj Patel is sister of Vivekanand Patel (Nanad). On 19. 06. 2017, the respondent No. 2 gave birth to a male child namely Vishwa Pratap. Respondent No. 2 submitted a written complaint to the Mahila Thana, Madan Mahal, Jabalpur alleging demand of dowry, atrocities, assault jointly by husband and other family members i. e. these petitioners. According to the complainant on 20. 09. 2019 her father took her to parental house as she was fed up of the atrocities committed by her husband and in- laws. On the basis of the said complaint, FIR was registered and she was sent for MLC. She was examined by the doctor on the same day, who found two abrasions and sprain on two other parts of the body. Police registered an FIR No. 70/2019 under Section 498-A, 294, 506, 342, 323/34 of IPC against the petitioners and husband. The statement of witnesses were recorded and after completing investigation the charge-sheet has been filed on 20. 09. 2019 under Sections 498-A, 294, 506, 342, 323/34 of IPC. Hence this petition before this Court. Learned counsel for the petitioners submitted that FIR has been registered as counterblast because the husband of the respondent No. 2 has filed a petition for divorce before the Family Court. The present petitioners have been falsely implicated in this case in order to put pressure on the husband. These petitioners have been living separately from the husband of the respondent No. 2. In support of the aforesaid contention, Samgra ID of husband and other family members has been filed.

[case 262]
Satyanarayan Mishra vs State Of Odisha. .. .. Opposite Party on 7 March, 2025 In the HIGH COURT OF ORISSA AT CUTTACK. This is an application for Regular Bail under Section 439 of the Cr. P. C. arising out of Salepur P. S. Case No. 13 of 2024 which corresponds to Special G. R. Case No. 10 of 2024 pending in the court of learned Ad hoc A. D. J. -cum-F. T. S. C. -I, Cuttack for commission of offence punishable under Sections 376(3)/376(2)(n)/343 of the I. P. C. read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012 read with Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015. The prosecution story, in brief, is that the victim lodged the complaint before the Salepur P. S. inter alia alleging therein that after the death of her father, her mother was working as a maid servant in the house of the present Petitioner. Both the victim and her mother were residing in the house of the Petitioner. Thereafter, her mother left the house of the Petitioner in connection with the studies of her son (the brother of the victim), leaving the victim behind at the Petitioner's house to do the household work. As a result, it was the victim that used to do all the household work at the residence of the Petitioner and for the service rendered by the victim, her mother used to get monthly remuneration of Rs. 2, 000/-. While staying in the house of the Petitioner, the Petitioner used to ill-treat the victim. The victim used to sleep in the room in the ground-floor of the house and the Petitioner would come to her room and against the wishes of the victim, he used to kiss and molest her. He also used to touch her private parts. Although the victim used to resist such conduct of the Petitioner, however, the Petitioner continued to sexually harass her. She has further stated that the petitioner had also kept physical relationship with the victim against her will. Eventually, the victim was rescued by a Child Welfare Officer. Thereafter, a report has been lodged before the Salepur P. S. for commission of offences as has been indicated hereinabove.

[case 263]
Mrs. Praveena vs The Child Welfare Committee (North) on 5 April, 2024. W. P. No. 4843 of 2024. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 05. 04. 2024. CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. M. SUBRAMANIAM. Mrs. Praveena. .. Petitioner. Vs. 1. The Child Welfare Committee (North), Through its President / Chairman, 2. Mariyakaya Girls Home. .. Respondents. Prayer: Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Mandamus, directing the 1st respondent to consider petitioner representation dated 16. 02. 2024 and to direct the 1st respondent to pass an order to give custody of the petitioner's minor adopted child namely A. Prithika aged about 11 years to petitioner. The petitioner states that she has adopted the minor child from one Mrs. M. Preethi, who had affairs with another person. The child was adopted in the year 2012 and thereafter, it is brought up by the petitioner and another person. The minor girl is aged about 11 years and informed the School Teacher that she had been abused by the said Boopalan in the house. The School Teacher provided information to the Child Help Line, who in turn visited the child and ascertained the facts. Thereafter, took the child to the Government Home. The 1st respondent states that the child now is in safe custody in Government Home Sevasadhan. She is attending the school regularly and living happily. The learned counsel for the petitioner would submit that the child was adopted in the year 2012 and the petitioner is looking after her. Therefore, she is entitled for custody. The Child Welfare Committee-North Zone, Chennai filed a report regarding the factual aspects. .. . Considering all facts and circumstances, this Court is of the considered opinion that the petitioner is not entitled for custody. More so, the petitioner is having living-in relationship with the said Boopalan. .. . Further, it is brought to the notice of this Court that the information received by the Child Help Line was informed to the Police for appropriate action.

[case 264]
Karnataka High Court G. Raghu Varma vs The State Of Karnataka on 19 February, 2024. The petitioner - accused is sought to be prosecuted for the offences punishable under Sections 366(A), 376(1) of the IPC and Sections 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. The case of the prosecution is that, the petitioner - accused fully knowing that the survivor was the minor, solemnized his marriage with her and committed penetrative sexual assault. The survivor and her parents were present before this Court on 20. 12. 2023, and filed a joint affidavit stating that the marriage of the survivor with the petitioner was solemnized inadvertently, and in ignorance of law, and from the said wedlock, a male child was born. They further stated that the survivor and the newly born child are dependent on the petitioner for their livelihood. If the criminal proceedings are allowed to continue, it would result in incarceration of the petitioner which would cause more misery and agony to the survivor and her child rather than securing the ends of justice. The petitioner and the survivor represented by her natural guardian have filed a joint affidavit that the sexual intercourse and the solemnization of their marriage was a consensual one. They would register their marriage upon the survivor attaining the age of majority. The object of POCSO Act is to protect minors from sexual abuse and not to criminalize the consensual relationship between adolescents who had consensual sexual intercourse without knowing the consequences. Though having sexual intercourse consensually with the minor is an offence under the POCSO Act, it would be appropriate to quash the impugned proceedings, otherwise, it would result in miscarriage of justice to the survivor and the child. Accordingly, petition is allowed. The impugned proceedings in Special C. C. No. 2432/2023. .. are hereby quashed. The petitioner to be released from judicial custody forthwith, if he is not required in any other case.

[case 265]
The Criminal Revision Case has been filed by the Petitioner/child in conflict with law represented by his mother, seeking to set aside the order of detention rendered by the learned Juvenile Justice Board, Thiruvallur in J. C. No. 21 of 2020 dated 17. 3. 2021. By the impugned order of detention, the Juvenile Justice Board, Thiruvallur had directed for detention of the petitioner/child in conflict with law in Government Special Home, Chingleput for a period of three years for the offences alleged against him punishable under Sections 5(j)(ii) read with Section 6 of Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 merely by observing that the child had confessed. Brief facts of the case are as under: (i) The petitioner/child in conflict with law and the victim girl were aged about 15 and 17 respectively at the relevant point of time and they were employed in the Exhibition Hall at Pattabiram and during such time, they had developed intimacy with each other. (ii) On being warned by her mother, the victim girl had moved to her aunt's house after quarrelling with her mother. (iii) Whileso, on 12. 3. 2019, the petitioner had unauthorisedly entered into the house where the victim girl was staying when nobody else was there and had penetrative sex with the victim girl by apprising her that her mother would consent for their marriage if they had sexual relationship and subsequently, on several occasions, he had repeated such sexual relationship with the victim girl as a result, the victim girl had become pregnant during August 2019. (iv) Subsequently, on 15. 8. 2019, PW1, the mother of the victim girl, on coming to know through her elder daughter that the petitioner had picked up quarrel with the victim girl with regard to the paternity of the child, had lodged the complaint with the police, which ended in a case registered against the petitioner in Crime No. 9/2019 on the file of the respondent police for the offences punishable under Section 5(j)(ii) read with Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012.

[case 266]
This Criminal Miscellaneous Petition has been filed to suspend the sentence imposed on the petitioner/A2 by the learned Special Judge under the POCSO Act, 2012, (Principal Sessions Judge), Puducherry, in Spl. S. C. No. 7 of 2021, by judgment dated 22. 12. 2022, and to enlarge the petitioner/A2 on bail pending disposal of the above Criminal Appeal. There are totally 11 accused persons in this case. The case of the prosecution in a nutshell is that the victim girls are minor children belonging to ST Community; that they were procured by A1 by paying money for the purpose of unlawful compulsory labour of doing household works, duck rearing and for other immoral purposes; that the petitioner/A2 is the wife of A1; that the petitioner is said to have caused wrongful restrain of the victim girls and subjected them to cruelty by not providing proper food to them, making them to eat filthy food, making them bonded labour to rear ducks day and night, and also by using them for illicit intercourse and other unlawful and immoral purposes; that the petitioner abated the other accused persons and also harassed the victim girls for a period of two years; when the same was informed to the Chairman of Child Welfare Committee, a case came to be registered in Crime No. 187 of 2020, based on the complaint given by the Officer of the Child Welfare Committee, against all the accused persons. The accused were tried by the learned Special Judge under the POCSO Act, 2012, (Principal Sessions Judge), Puducherry, in Spl. S. C. No. 7 of 2021. The case was split up as against A6, as he was a juvenile. Ultimately, except A10, all other accused were convicted and sentenced and in particular, the petitioner/A2 was convicted and sentenced. Challenging the above conviction and sentence, the petitioner/A2 has filed the above Criminal Appeal and she is seeking suspension of sentence and bail in the present miscellaneous petition. The minor children were rescued after they being subjected to all sorts of cruelties and sexual abuses.

[case 267]
This Bail Application filed under Section 438 of Criminal Procedure Code were heard through Video Conference. Petitioners are the accused in Crime No. 2338/2020 and Crime No. 2337/2020 of Thiruvalla Police Station. The allegation against the petitioner in both the cases are same. Therefore, I am disposing these bail applications by a common order. Both the cases are registered based on the statement of the two kids of the petitioner's son. The allegation is that the petitioner, who is the grandfather of these two kids sexually abused the children in 2016 and 2018. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned Public Prosecutor. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that this is a false case foisted against the petitioner. The counsel submitted that there is a matrimonial dispute between the father and mother of the victims. The counsel produced Annexure A e-mail communications between the father and mother of the victim. The counsel submitted that a bare perusal of these e-mails which are in the year 2017 will show that the mother of the victim has got an enmity towards the petitioner. The counsel submitted that the allegation of sexual abuse was there in 2016 also. But such an allegation is not mentioned in these e-mail communications. The counsel submitted that this is false case foisted at the instance of the mother of the victim. The petitioner is aged 70 and is ready to abide by any condition if granted bail. The learned Public Prosecutor opposed the bail application, asserting that serious allegations are there against the petitioner from the children and custodial interrogation is necessary. After hearing both sides, I think, this bail application can be allowed on stringent conditions, considering the aged status of the petitioner. Moreover, it is well accepted that bail is the rule and jail is the exception. This Bail Application is allowed with specific directions regarding conditions to be met by the petitioner to ensure the integrity of the investigation.

[case 268]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Bharti Kasde (Gond) vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 20 November, 2024. This petition u/S 482 r/W Sec 407 of Cr. P. C. is preferred against the order dated 04. 11. 2022 passed in SCATR No. 99/2021 by the learned First Additional Sessions Judge and Special Judge (POCSO) Act, Distt. Dewas. It is stated in the petition that P. S. Nemawar Distt. Dewas registered a missing person report and FIR bearing Crime No. 132/2021 for offence punishable u/S 363 of IPC with regard to missing of Mamta Bai, Divya, Rupali, Pawan and Pooja. After investigation, it was revealed that the accused in furtherance of a conspiracy killed Mamta Bai, Divya, Rupali, Pawan and Pooja on the intervening night of 13/14. 05. 2021. Accordingly, P. S. Nemawar filed final report u/S 173 of Cr. P. C. for offence punishable u/S 363, 302, 201, 120-B, 34, 364, 376, 376(2)(n) of IPC; Section 3(2)(v) and 3(2)(va) of SC/ST(Prevention of Atrocities Act); Section 66B and 66C of the Information Technology Act and Section 5L and 6 of Prevention of Children from Sexual offences Act, 2012. The Department of Home, Govt. of M. P. vide Notification dated 29. 12. 2021 authorised further investigation of Crime No. 132/2021 to the Central Bureau of Investigation. The Govt. of India vide notification dated 11. 04. 2022 authorised the CBI to investigate into Crime No. 132/2021. The CBI(respondent no. 2) filed supplementary final report (chargsheet) before the learned Special Judge. Learned (POCSO Act), Dewas took cognizance of the offence and declined to transfer the case to the Special Court (CBI), Indore vide order dated 04. 11. 2022. Feeling aggrieved by non-transfer of the case to the Court of Special Judge(CBI), Indore, present petition is filed on the following grounds: 1. The learned trial Court at Dewas has no jurisdiction to try the case as the same was investigated by the CBI. 2. The Special Court(CBI), Indore alone has jurisdiction to try the matter. 3. The trial by a Court without jurisdiction would be in nullity.

[case 269]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Bharti Kasde (Gond) vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 20 November, 2024. This petition u/S 482 r/W Sec 407 of Cr. P. C. is preferred against the order dated 04. 11. 2022 passed in SCATR No. 99/2021 by the learned First Additional Sessions Judge and Special Judge (POCSO) Act, Distt. Dewas. It is stated in the petition that P. S. Nemawar Distt. Dewas registered a missing person report and FIR bearing Crime No. 132/2021 for offence punishable u/S 363 of IPC with regard to missing of Mamta Bai, Divya, Rupali, Pawan and Pooja. After investigation, it was revealed that the accused in furtherance of a conspiracy killed Mamta Bai, Divya, Rupali, Pawan and Pooja on the intervening night of 13/14. 05. 2021. Accordingly, P. S. Nemawar filed final report u/S 173 of Cr. P. C. for offence punishable u/S 363, 302, 201, 120-B, 34, 364, 376, 376(2)(n) of IPC; Section 3(2)(v) and 3(2)(va) of SC/ST(Prevention of Atrocities Act); Section 66B and 66C of the Information Technology Act and Section 5L and 6 of Prevention of Children from Sexual offences Act, 2012. The Department of Home, Govt. of M. P. vide Notification dated 29. 12. 2021 authorised further investigation of Crime No. 132/2021 to the Central Bureau of Investigation. The Govt. of India vide notification dated 11. 04. 2022 authorised the CBI to investigate into Crime No. 132/2021. The CBI(respondent no. 2) filed supplementary final report (chargsheet) before the learned Special Judge. Learned (POCSO Act), Dewas took cognizance of the offence and declined to transfer the case to the Special Court (CBI), Indore via order dated 04. 11. 2022. Feeling aggrieved by non-transfer of the case to the Court of Special Judge(CBI), Indore, present petition is filed on the following grounds: 1. The learned trial Court at Dewas has no jurisdiction to try the case as the same was investigated by the CBI. 2. The Special Court(CBI), Indore alone has jurisdiction to try the matter. 3. The trial by a Court without jurisdiction would be in nullity.

[case 270]
The appellant stands convicted and is aggrieved by judgment dated 15th October, 2015 (in Sessions Case No. 163/2013) on the charge with the gravamen of he having assaulted and committed forcible sexual intercourse with his less-than-14 years old step-daughter making her pregnant with his child and subjecting her to criminal intimidation. The trial held in the court of Additional Sessions Judge, also designated as Special Court under Section 28 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act) for New Delhi district, had arisen out of report under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr. P. C), submitted by Station House Officer (SHO) of Police Station Vasant Vihar on 12. 11. 2013, upon conclusion of investigation into first information report (FIR) No. 458/2013. The Special Court, by its order dated 12. 11. 2013, upon perusal of the complaint and other documents submitted with the said report (charge-sheet), had taken cognizance of offences punishable under Sections 354A, 376 and 506 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) read with Sections 4 and 5 of POCSO Act. The trial judge by proceedings recorded on 10. 01. 2014 put the appellant on trial on charge for offences under Sections 354, 376, 506 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act. On the conclusion of trial, the impugned judgment dated 15th October, 2015 was passed holding the appellant guilty, as charged, for offences punishable under Sections 354 and 506 IPC besides under Section 4 of POCSO Act read with Section 376 IPC. By subsequent order dated 5th January, 2016, separate punishments were awarded against the appellant for offences punishable under Section 376 IPC, Section 6 POCSO Act, Section 354 IPC and Section 506 IPC. In addition, the trial judge directed compensation to be paid specifying the amounts at  13 lakhs payable with reference to Section 33 (8) of POCSO Act read with Rule 7 (2) of POCSO Rules, 2012 besides 2 lakhs recommended under Section 357-A Cr. P. C. read with POCSO Rules.

[case 271]
The appellant is aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 15-10-2016 rendered by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Gadchiroli in Special POCSO Case 2/2014, by and under which the appellant-accused is convicted for offence punishable under Section 376(2)(l) of the Indian Penal Code ('IPC' for short) and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ('POCSO Act' for short) and is sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for ten years and to payment of fine of Rs. 5, 000/-. The prosecution case: The victim is mentally challenged. The first information report (Exhibit 24) is lodged by the elder sister of the victim Ashwini Makalwar (P. W. 1) on 16-11-2013 at Chamorshi Police Station. The gist of the said report and the case of the prosecution as is unfolded during the trial is that in the afternoon of 15-11-2013 P. W. 1 was cleaning utensils at home. Her parents had gone out. The accused came home with the victim, who was crying. The accused was under the influence of liquor. P. W. 1 enquired with the accused who said that the victim should be given a bath and she would calm down. P. W. 1 noticed that the slacks of the victim were torn and blood stained. She confronted the accused who abused her and left in a hurry. The neighbours of P. W. 1 Salima, Gangu and Manda removed the clothes of the victim and noticed blood oozing from her private part. P. W. 1 cleaned the blood and change the clothes of the victim. Parents of the child victim returned home at 6-00 p. m. to whom P. W. 1 narrated the incident. The parents of the victim took her to the house of the accused and confronted the accused. The accused abused them and said that he did whatever he wanted to do and the parents of the child victim are free to do what they wish to do. The father of P. W. 1 approached police patil Anil Kothare and sarpanch Vinayak Manapure at about 7-30 p. m. and narrated the incident. The police patil and sarpanch came to the house of P. W. 1 and made enquiries. P. W. 1 narrated the incident.

[case 272]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD Case: - CRIMINAL MISC ANTICIPATORY BAIL APPLICATION U/S 438 CR. P. C. No. - 9864 of 2021 Applicant: - Jitendra Singh @ Jitendra Yadav Opposite Party: - State of U. P. and Another Counsel for Applicant: - Sanjay Pathak Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, J. Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the record. This is an application for the anticipatory bail given by the applicant Jitendra Singh @ Jitendra Yadav in Case Crime No. 0210 of 2021, under Section 354 I. P. C. and section 7/8 of POCSO Act, P. S. -Kotwali, District - Fatehpur. Submission of the learned counsel for the applicant is that informant side is tenant in the building of applicant and when he went there to demand rent, he has been falsely implicated in this case. Further submission is that he is teacher by profession and due to the F. I. R. police is inclined to make arrest, therefore, a prima facie case for anticipatory bail is made out. It is further submitted that applicant has no criminal history and applicant is prepared to furnish sureties and bonds, there is no possibility of his either fleeing away from the judicial process or tampering with the evidence. Learned A. G. A. has vehemently opposed the prayer of bail and has submitted that offence also pertains to POCSO Act and the victim child has given statement under section 164 Cr. P. C. supporting the F. I. R. version and has stated that applicant sexually abused her, therefore, no prima facie case has been made out for the anticipatory bail. In view of above and also that the case pertains to POCSO Act and the law has been enacted in order to prevent sexual abuse of the children, if in such kind of cases anticipatory bail is granted, this will frustrate the very object of law. I do not find any reason to grant anticipatory bail, therefore, the anticipatory bail application is rejected. Forum for regular bail is always open to the applicant.

[case 273]
The above appeals arise from S. C. No. 135 of 2014 on the files of the Additional District and Sessions Court, Ernakulam. There were five accused in the case. Accused 1, 2 and 5 among them, are the appellants in the appeals. Accused 3 and 4 in the case were though convicted and sentenced under Section 354 IPC, they have not preferred any appeal challenging their conviction and sentence in the case. Among the appellants, the first accused stands convicted and sentenced under Section 376(1) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the second accused stands convicted and sentenced under Section 109 read with Sections 354 and 376(1) IPC as also under Section 23 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 and the fifth accused stands convicted and sentenced under Sections 354 and 376(1) IPC. The second accused is the mother of the victim. The father of the victim is no more. The first accused was a regular visitor in the house of the second accused. The fifth accused is a person running a shop in the close proximity of the house of the victim. The case which culminated in the conviction of the accused was one registered at the instance of the Child Welfare Committee, Ernakulam. In the final report, it was alleged that the victim was aged only 9 years. When the accused were committed to trial on the final report being filed in the case, the Court of Session framed the following charges against them: First: - That, in the month of August 2012, from the kitchen of the house of the 2nd accused, having building number, Elamkunnapuzha gramapancyayat XVII/341, situated on the southern side of Beach Road, near to the Murikumpadam Belbo Street, Vypin-Munambam State Highway, you the 1st accused, with the knowledge and consent of the 2nd accused, had sexual intercourse with CW2, daughter of the 2nd accused, a girl child aged 9 years, three times repeatedly and, thereby you have committed the offence, rape, punishable u/s. 376 (2) (f) of IPC, within my cognizance.

[case 274]
E. Govindaraj vs M. Bhuvaneshwari on 13 August, 2024. This civil revision petition arises against the order of the learned II Additional District and Sessions Judge, Ranipet, Vellore District, in Criminal Appeal No. 81 of 2023 dated 23. 08. 2023 in confirming the order of the learned District Munsif cum Judicial Magistrate at Ranipet in CMP. No. 1495 of 2022 in DVC. No. 11 of 2021. DVC. No. 11 of 2021 has been presented by the respondents as against the civil revision petitioner. There is no dispute in the relationship between the parties. The petitioner married the first respondent on 06. 02. 2014 at Chengalpet. From the wedlock, the second respondent was born on 04. 09. 2016. The first respondent alleged that the petitioner never used to lend an ear to the troubles that the first respondent was facing or gave her any financial solace during the time they were living together. She would plead that the civil revision petitioner wanted only a boy child, but since a girl child had been born, and that too with health complications, he had forsaken/deserted the mother and child. Therefore, she had presented the aforesaid Domestic Violence Petition. On being served with the petition, the husband moved an application invoking the provisions of Order VII Rule 11. The learned Judicial Magistrate, on perusal of the complaint, came to the conclusion that the cause of action exists and therefore, dismissed the application on 04. 01. 2023. On appeal, the appeal was dismissed on 23. 08. 2023. Aggrieved by the same, the present revision has been filed. The wife's failure to seek relief under Section 18(1) of the Domestic Violence Act was claimed by the husband to disallowed her petition. However, it is established that under Section 12 of the Act, relief can be sought without necessitating Section 18 specifically. Allegations of verbal, emotional, and economic abuse are mentioned in her complaint, validating her petition. Therefore, the civil revision petition stands dismissed.

[case 275]
Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan vs State Of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. .. . on 4 March, 2025. THE HIGH COURT OF ORISSA AT CUTTACK CRLMC No. 3850 of 2024 (In the matter of an application under Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarika Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ) Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan. .. .. .. Petitioner -Versus- State of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. Opposite Parties For the Petitioner: Mr. Amitav Tripathy, Advocate For the Opposite Parties: Mr. Bibekananda Nayak, Additional Government Advocate CORAM: THE HONOURABLE SHRI JUSTICE SIBO SANKAR MISHRA Date of Hearing: 18. 02. 2025: : Date of Judgment: 04. 03. 2025 S. S. Mishra, J. The petitioner has filed the present application under Section 528 of the BNSS, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. , 1973, seeking quashing of the criminal proceedings arising out of Nayagarh P. S. Case No. 60 of 2022. The prosecution case originates from an FIR lodged by the informant on 10. 05. 2022, alleging that on 09. 05. 2022, the petitioner kidnapped her minor daughter (Opposite Party No. 3) and took away gold ornaments and cash of Rs. 8, 000/- from their house. Based on these allegations, Nayagarh P. S. Case No. 60 of 2022 was registered under Sections 363/366/376(2)(n) of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act. During the pendency of the trial, the petitioner and Opposite Party No. 3 entered into a marital relationship after the latter attained the age of majority. They are now living together as husband and wife, and the informant (Opposite Party No. 2) has expressed her willingness not to prosecute the matter further. Despite this, the question arises whether personal reconciliations should ever lead to dismissing serious charges such as those under the POCSO Act which were initiated to protect vulnerable minors from exploitation. What parameters can be utilized to assess whether the reconciliation, in this case, dissolves the need for continued legal action?

[case 276]
Dr. Jenbagalakshmi vs The State Of Tamil Nadu on 20 December, 2024. This Criminal Original Petition filed under Section 528 B. N. S. S. , to call for the records in connection with FIR in Crime No. 1 of 2024 on the file of the All Women Police Station, Srirangam, Tiruchirappalli District and quash the same. On the basis of the complaint lodged by the second respondent, FIR came to be registered in Crime No. 1 of 2024 on 28. 02. 2024 against three persons including the petitioner for the alleged offences under Sections 5(l), 5(j)(ii), 6(1) and 21(1) of Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter called as 'POCSO Act') and Section 312 IPC. The case of the prosecution is that the victim girl is the younger sister of the second respondent/defacto complainant, that the victim girl, who was aged 17 years, was admitted in Trichy Government Hospital by her maternal aunt Meenakshi and she had called the second respondent to come to Trichy Government Hospital, that when the second respondent had gone to the hospital, it was informed by her maternal aunt that the victim girl was pregnant as she was having a relationship with one Ramkumar. The maternal aunt, to abort the fetus, had taken the victim girl to Sudharsana Hospital on 24. 02. 2024 where a scan was taken. On 26. 02. 2024, the victim girl was brought to Sudharsana Hospital by her maternal aunt to abort the fetus and at the time of abortion, since the victim girl failed to co-operate, she was taken to Trichy Government Hospital in a serious condition and died thereafter. The petitioner, a Senior Doctor, was named as the third accused. The petitioner contends that she refused to perform the abortion and instead referred the victim to a government hospital. The Supreme Court had emphasized that a medical practitioner cannot be held liable simply based on misadventure or an error of judgment. This Court holds that considering the above, the FIR against the petitioner is liable to be quashed.

[case 277]
Neelam vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 20 April, 2023. .. This application has been filed seeking to quash the proceedings of Special Sessions Trial No. 71 of 2018 (arising out of Case Crime No. 1888 of 2017 (State v. Neelam and others) under Sections 363, 366 and 120-B I. P. C. and Section 16/17 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Police Station - Bakhira, District - Sant Kabir Nagar, pending before the Court of the Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge (POCSO Act), Sant Kabir Nagar. The submission of the learned Counsel for the applicant is that a compromise application dated 13. 12. 2023 has been filed, signed by the applicant, the prosecutrix, as also the first informant and her husband, that is to say, the mother and father of the prosecutrix. The case against the applicant is that she along with one Aman, conspired to cause the prosecutrix to elope with one Amiullah. The prosecutrix at the time when she eloped, was aged fifteen years and a student of Class X, reading in the local inter-college. It is true that a compromise application has been filed, which is signed by the informant, the prosecutrix, the prosecutrix's father and also by the applicant, where it is said that the prosecutrix, the informant and her husband do not want to pursue the prosecution any further. The prosecutrix's testimony during trial was recorded, where she testified as P. W. 2 on 10. 05. 2019. The relevant part of her testimony reads: "? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? "? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? " Now, much after that testimony, the prosecutrix and her parents have moved an application seeking to compromise on 13. 12. 2022. He. ..

[case 278]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH Case: - APPLICATION U/S 482 No. - 211 of 2023. Applicant: - Manish Kanaujia And 2 Others. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Home Deptt. Lko. And Another. Counsel for Applicant: - Dharmendra Kumar, Rahul Kannojia. Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Saurabh Lavania, J. Case called out. Despite service of notice upon opposite party no. 2- wife of the applicant no. 1, as is apparent from the letter of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Lucknow dated 27. 01. 2023 on record, which is based upon the report of the Sub Inspector of Police Station Bazarkhala, Lucknow dated 25. 01. 2023, no one has appeared on behalf of the opposite party no. 2. In the aforesaid background of the case, the Court proceeded to hear the counsel who are present before this Court for final disposal of the present application. Heard learned counsel for the applicants as well as Shri S. P. Tiwari, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material available on record. The present application has been filed seeking following main relief: 'Wherefore, it is most respectfully prayed that this Hon'ble court may kindly be pleased to allow the application and quash the entire criminal proceeding of Case No-844 of 2015 arising out of impugned summoning order dated 28. 3. 2015 passed by learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate-VIII Court No-32, Lucknow on the charge sheet No-13 dated 13. 1. 2015 filed in Crime No-181 of 2014 under sections-498-A, 323, 504, 506, 452 Indian Penal Code & Dowry Prohibition Act Police Station- Bajar Khala District-Lucknow, in re- Sate Versus Manish Kanaujia & ors, contained as Annexure No-1 to the petition. Meanwhile, this Hon'ble court may kindly be pleased to stay the further proceeding of Criminal case No-844 of 2015 in Crime No-181 of 2014 under section- 498-A, 323, 504, 506, 452 IPC & 3/4 D. P. Act pending in the court of ACJM-IV Lucknow, during pending instant petition.

[case 279]
Babai @ Divakara Bakta vs The State Of Karnataka on 27 August, 2020 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT DHARWAD BENCH DATED THIS THE 27TH DAY OF AUGUST, 2020 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE N. K. SUDHINDRARAO CRIMINAL APPEAL No. 100041/2017 C/W CRL. A. NOs. 100047/2017, 100078/2017, 100062/2017, 100175/2017, 100151/2017, 100344/2017 AND CRL. R. P No. 100206/2017 IN CRL. A. No. 100041/2017 BETWEEN: 1. AKBAR @ AKBAR BASHA S/O ABDUL SAB AGE 25 YEARS, OCC: AUTO DRIVER R/O. GOUTHAM NAGAR, DC NAGAR IN FRONT OF MASJIT BALLARI DIST: BALLARI. 2. HABEEB SAB, S/O ABBAS KHAN AGE: 32 YEARS, OCC: ELECTRICIAN R/O. D. C. NAGAR, BALLARI DIST: BALLARI. 3. S K SHEKSHAVALI S/O KHADER BASHA A K AGE: 28 YEARS, OCC; PAN SHOP R/O. OPP: MOULALI ZANDA KATTA DC NAGAR, BALLARI DIST: BALLARI. 4. SOORI @ M SURESH S/O KANTHEPPA AGED ABOUT 26 YEARS OCC: AUTO DRIVER R/O BEHIND SELECT TALIKIES CB. BALLARI, DIST: BALLARI. 5. BASHA @ MAHABOOB BASHA S/O ALLABAKAS AGED ABOUT: 27 YEARS OCC: AUTO DRIVER R/O ADAM NAGAR BELAGAL ROAD NEAR DC NAGAR BALLARI DIST: BALLARI. 6. PEERA S/O SHEKSHAVALI AGE: 36 YEARS OCC: AUTO DRIVER R/O. D. C. NAGAR BALLARI DSIT: BALLARI. .. .APPELLANTS (BY SRI ANAND R KOLLI, ADVOCATE FOR APPELLANTS No. 1, 2, 4, 5 & 6 SMT. SUNITHA P KALASOOR, ADVOCATE FOR A-3) AND: THE STATE OF KARNATAKA REP. BY SPP HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA BENCH DHARWAD THROUGH CIRCLE INSPECTOR OF POLICE, RURAL CIRCLE, BALLARI DIST: BALLARI. .. .RESPONDENT (BY SRI V M BANAKAR, FOR SPP SMT. JEENA V CHACKO, ADV. FOR ASST. HCGP) THIS CRIMINAL APPEAL IS FILED UNDER SECTION 374(2) OF CR. P. C. , PRAYING TO SET ASIDE THE ORDER OF CONVICTION, INCLUDING THE FINE IMPOSED BY THE HON'BLE 1ST ADDITONAL DISTRICT AND SESSION JUDGE, BALLARI IN SESSION CASE No. 151 OF 2013 DATED 17. 01. 2017 PUNISHABLE UNDER SECTION 366, 366A, 366B, 368, 370, 370A, 372, 373 READ WITH 149 OF IPC AND UNDER SECTION 3 AND 4 OF PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCE ACT 2012 AND UDNER SECTION 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 AND 9 OF IMMORAL TRAFFIC PREVENTION ACT 1956.

[case 280]
This Criminal Appeal is filed against the Judgment of conviction and sentence passed by the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of cases under POCSO Act, Chennai dated 22. 04. 2021 in S. C. No. 183 of 2018. The respondent police registered the case against the appellant in Crime No. 3 of 2018 for the offence under Section 6, 8 and 12 of POCSO Act, 2012. After investigation, the respondent police laid the charge sheet before Mahila cum Children Court, and the same was subsequently transferred to the Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive trial of cases under POCSO Act. The learned Sessions Judge taken the charge sheet on file in S. C. No. 183 of 2018 and after completing the formalities under Sec. 207 of Cr. P. C. framed charges against the appellant for the offence punishable under Sec. 12 and 6 of POCSO Act. After framing of charges, in order to prove the case of prosecution, on the side of prosecution, as many as 6 witnesses were examined as P. W. 1 to P. W. 6, 12 documents were marked as Ex. P1 to P12, besides, one material object was marked as M. O. 1. After completing the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, incriminating circumstances culled out from the evidence of the prosecution witnesses were put before the appellant / accused by questioning under Section 313 Cr. P. C. with reference to the incriminating circumstances appeared on the prosecution witnesses, the same were denied by the accused as false and pleaded not guilty. .. The case of prosecution is that on the day of easter, P. W. 2's daughter was playing outside, came crying and told that the appellant took her in his bike and showed pictures in the cell phone and touched her private part and also made her to touch his private part. This Court also, as an appellate court, as a fact finding court, independently re-appreciated the evidence and finds that the defence taken by the appellant was not established in the manner known to law.

[case 281]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 22ND DAY OF OCTOBER 2020 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE SREENIVAS HARISH KUMAR CRIMINAL PETITION No. 5202 OF 2020 BETWEEN Jagadeesha, Aged about 45 years, S/o. Manchugowda, R/at Mahadevapura Village, Bilikere Hobli, Hunsur Taluk, Mysuru-571105. .. .Petitioner (By Sri. P. Nataraju, Advocate) AND 1. State of Karnataka By Bilikere Police Station, Mysuru District Represented by State Public Prosecutor, High Court Building, Bengaluru-560001. 2. Smt. Jayasheela, Aged about 31 years, W/o. Manju M. N. , R/at Mahadevapura Village, Hunsur Taluk, Mysuru District-571105. .. .Respondents (By Sri. B. J. Rohith, HCGP for R1, R2-served, unrepresented) This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 Cr. P. C praying to enlarge the petitioner on bail in Cr. No. 188/2019 of Bilikere Police Station, Mysuru, for the offence punishable under Section 376AB of IPC and Sections 5(m) and 6 of POCSO Act. This Criminal Petition coming on for orders through video conferencing this day, the court made the following: ORDER Though second respondent-complainant is served, there is no representation on her behalf. 2. Heard both sides. 3. The prosecution case is that the petitioner had forcible intercourse with a child aged 3 years 6 months. In the complaint made by the mother of the victim girl it is stated that when the girl was playing, the petitioner took her to his house and sexually assaulted her. 4. Though it is the argument of the counsel for the petitioner that the medical report does not support the prosecution case, on a perusal of the statement made by the girl under section 164 Cr. P. C, it can be clearly made out that the petitioner sexually abused the girl. The victim girl has given a clear narration of the manner in which she was subjected to sexual assault. The trial has already commenced. I do not find a case for granting bail. Hence, petition is dismissed.

[case 282]
This criminal petition is filed under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. seeking to quash the impugned FIR and complaint registered in Hubli-Dharwad City Women PS Crime No. 0062/2023 registered for offences punishable under Section 498A, 504 r/w Section 34 of IPC and under Sections 3, 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 pending on the file of JMFC 2nd Court Dharwad, in so far as present petitioners/accused Nos. 2 to 4 are concerned. The registration of the FIR for the offences punishable under Section 498A, 504, r/w Section 34 of IPC and under Sections 3, 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 is impugned in this petition. The 2nd respondent lodged the FIR stating her marriage with accused No. 1 was solemnized on 15. 8. 2019, and after her marriage she went to Saudatti to lead her marital life for two months, and at that time, her husband- accused No1, accused No. 2 to 4 who are the brother-in-laws and sister-in-law subjected her to cruelty both mentally and physically and also demanded to bring money from her parental home. After two months, she went with accused No. 1-husband to Dubai, and there, accused No. 1 subjected her to cruelty both mentally and physically by assaulting her. During the year 2021, she came back to her parental home for delivering a child and a male child was born in the year 2021. In the year 2021, accused No. 1 sent his brother and sister-in-law to take them to Saudatti, and she stayed in the matrimonial home for a period of one month, and thereafter, she was thrown out of the matrimonial home and she was residing at her parental home till 2023. At that point of time, accused No. 1-husband called her over the phone and also sent a message stating that he would look after her well and asked them to come to Dubai. After going to Dubai, the accused No. 1, again started to abuse her and assaulted her and she was unable to bear the harassment meted out, returned back to her parental home.

[case 283]
Accused Mahipal @ Lala is facing trial on allegations of committing penetrative sexual assault upon her step-daughter/victim 'V' aged about 13 years. FIR in question was registered on the complaint of victim who alleged that she was residing with her parents and brother in Sultanpuri area of Delhi. Her mother started working in a factory where she met accused Mahipal @ Lala who was working as a driver in the said factory. Accused started visiting their house and due to this reason her parents frequently quarreled with each other. For this reason, father of the victim left for his native village along with brother of the victim. Wife of accused also had suspicion over relationship of mother of victim and accused and she also left accused and went away with her children. Thereafter, accused married mother of victim and started residing at a rented accommodation at Mangolpuri with them. After marriage they used to fight with each other and her mother, being frustrated with the relationship with accused, committed suicide. Thereafter, accused started residing with the victim and after about one month of the death of her mother, accused started forcibly sexually assaulting the victim. Accused used to threaten victim that if she will disclose the incidents to anybody, he would kill her. On 05. 08. 2014, accused again committed wrong act with victim and also gave beatings to her. Finding that accused was sleeping, victim escaped from the house and met a girl namely Shewta. Victim narrated to Shewta the atrocities given by accused to her. Shweta brought victim to police station where her statement was recorded. Victim prayed for an action against the accused. Accused was arrested and charge-sheeted. Charge for offence punishable under Section 6 POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act & U/s 506 IPC was framed against accused. Accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

[case 284]
The Applicant is seeking his release on bail in connection with C. R. No. 18/2020 registered with Roha Police Station, Raigad, under sections 376-AB (l)(j), 354, 354-A (1)(2), 354-B of the Indian Penal Code and under sections 5, 8, 9 and 10 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act (POCSO), 2012. The Applicant was arrested on 07/03/2020 and since then he is in custody. The investigation is over and the charge-sheet is filed. The FIR is lodged by mother of the victim. The victim was 10 years of age on the date of incident. The victim was mentally challenged since birth. On 28/02/2020 she had gone to school with her younger sister who was 7 years of age. However, the younger sister returned home, but the victim had not returned. The first informant tried to search for her. When she went near the school, she saw that the victim and one unknown person were climbing down the steps. The informant questioned the unknown person as to why he had taken the victim with him. He did not give any answer. He tried to go away from the spot. The informant slapped him. Thereafter she took the victim with her and came home. She told this incident to her husband. She did not find any injuries on the person of the victim and therefore she did not tell this incident to anybody else. On 29/02/2020 the victim complained that she was having pain in her stomach. On the next day, the informant came to know a number of helpline. She made a phone call to that number. She was contacted by the office bearers of children protection group. They took the informant to police station for lodging their complaint. The police officers then searched for that person. At that time they did not find him. The victim was crying and did not give any further information. She was taken for medical examination. The informant was told that the victim's hymen was ruptured. Thereafter this FIR was lodged.

[case 285]
Challenging the order of acquittal dated 22. 09. 2017 passed by the Sessions Judge (Mahila Fast Track Court), Nagapattinam in S. C. No. 14/2015, the State has filed the present appeal. The respondent stood charged for the offences punishable under Section 6 r/w. 5(l)(m) and (j)(ii) and Section 10 r/w. 9(l)(m) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short POCSO Act) by the trial court in S. C. No. 14/2015. The case of the prosecution as could be discerned from the oral and documentary evidence is as follows: The victim (P. W. 1) is residing with her parents and her siblings at Kandiyur Village, Kutthalam Taluk, Nagapattinam District. She was studying VIII standard in 2013. According to P. W. 1, her parents are daily wagers. The date of birth of the victim is 03. 06. 2001 as per the Transfer Certificate (Ex. P3) issued by the Government Higher Secondary School, Kutthalam. P. W. 1 in her deposition had stated that during 2013, she attained puberty and the respondent, who was her neighbour, used to come down to her house whenever she was alone. He also sexually assaulted her and forced himself upon her. This had continued for more than two years. On 13. 06. 2015, since she had severe stomach pain, her mother (P. W. 2) took her to Government Periyar Hospital, Mayiladuthurai and when she was in the outpatient ward, she delivered a female child. P. W. 2, the mother of the victim questioned her daughter (P. W. 1) who in turn informed her that the respondent used to have sex with her. P. W. 1 did not inform P. W. 2 about the incident, immediately, fearing repercussions. The victim was admitted as an inpatient in Government Hospital, Mayiladuthurai. Dr. Aarthi (P. W. 5) examined P. W. 1 on 13. 06. 2015 at about 9. 15 a. m. The victim informed the doctor that she had sexual intercourse with a known person, as a result of which, she became pregnant and that she was not married. ..

[case 286]
The appellant stands convicted and is aggrieved by judgment dated 15th October, 2015 (in Sessions Case No. 163/2013) on the charge with the gravamen of he having assaulted and committed forcible sexual intercourse with his less-than-14 years old step-daughter making her pregnant with his child and subjecting her to criminal intimidation. The trial held in the court of Additional Sessions Judge, also designated as Special Court under Section 28 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act) for New Delhi district, had arisen out of report under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr. P. C), submitted by Station House Officer (SHO) of Police Station Vasant Vihar (the police station) on 12. 11. 2013, upon conclusion of investigation into first information report (FIR) No. 458/2013. The Special Court, by its order dated 12. 11. 2013, upon perusal of the complaint and other documents submitted with the said report (charge-sheet), had taken cognizance of offences punishable under Sections 354A, 376 and 506 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) read with Sections 4 and 5 of POCSO Act. The trial judge by proceedings recorded on 10. 01. 2014 put the appellant on trial on charge for offences under Sections 354, 376, 506 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act. By subsequent order dated 5th January, 2016, separate punishments were awarded against the appellant for offences punishable under Section 376 IPC, Section 6 POCSO Act, Section 354 IPC and Section 506 IPC. In addition, the trial judge directed compensation to be paid specifying the amounts at  13 lakhs payable with reference to Section 33 (8) of POCSO Act read with Rule 7 (2) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Rules, 2012 (POCSO Rules) besides 2 lakhs recommended under Section 357-A Cr. P. C. read with POCSO Rules.

[case 287]
On 28/06/2014, a child aged about 16 years was admitted in the Government Hospital Puducherry complaining lower abdominal pain. The medical examination of the child, turned out to be a case of self abortion consuming medicine purchased from a pharmacy without prescription. Being a minor girl, the matter was reported to the Child Welfare Committee by the Hospital Authorities. On enquiry, the cause of pregnancy was attributed to a 51 years old man who is the appellant herein. On receiving the complaint given by the minor girl, a case in Crime No. 252/2014 under Section 6 of POCSO Act was registered on 01/07/2014 and taken up for investigation. During the course of investigation, the statement of the minor girl was recorded by the Judicial Magistrate. The accused was arrested and based on his confession, his cell phone containing obscene pictures to allure the girl were recovered. On completion of investigation final report filed against the appellant/accused and taken cognizance by the Sessions Court. The trial Court framed charges under Section 5(1)(ii) r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act 2012 and Section 376 of I. P. C and tried the accused. To prove these charges the prosecution examined 16 witnesses, marked 25 exhibits and 4 material objects. In defence, 3 witnesses were examined, two witnesses were examined as Court Witnesses. The trial Court held the accused guilty of both charges. He was sentenced to undergo 10 years R. I and to pay fine of Rs. 1, 000/- in default 6 months S. I for the offence under Section 376 IPC. For the offence under Section 5(1)(ii) r/w 6 of POCSO he was sentenced to undergo 10 years R. I and to pay a fine of Rs. 1, 00, 000/- in default to undergo one year S. I. The period of substantive sentence was ordered to run concurrently and the period of imprisonment already undergone was ordered to be set off under Section 428 of Cr. P. C.

[case 288]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH Case: - BAIL No. - 7861 of 2019 Applicant: - Vijai Opposite Party: - State of U. P. Counsel for Applicant: - Nishi Agarwal, Dheer Sen Bhatt, Dinesh Kumar, Milan Singh Yadav Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Mrs. Saroj Yadav, J. Heard learned counsel for both the sides. This bail application has been filed by the applicant in Case Crime No. 231 of 2017, under Sections 363, 366, 376, 504, 506 I. P. C. and Section 3/4 of POCSO Act, Police Station Shahbad District Hardoi. Learned counsel for the accused/applicant submitted that victim herself has stated that she had love affair with the accused/applicant. The accused/applicant has committed no crime. The statement of victim was recorded under Section 161 Cr. P. C. by the Investigating Officer. She has also been examined before trial court as P. W1, wherein she stated that she herself went with the accused/applicant. She is still living with him and has one child. So the accused/applicant should be enlarged on bail. The accused/applicant is languishing in jail since 04. 12. 2018. Contrary to it, learned A. G. A. opposed the bail application and submitted that victim was minor at the time of incident. So the accused/applicant should not be enlarged on bail. Considered the rival submissions and perused the record. The victim has stated in her statement before the trial court that she went with the accused/applicant on her own will, she got married with him and has one child out of the wedlock. She told that her age is 22 years. Even if the documents produced by the prosecution to prove the age of the victim is relied upon at the time of giving statement in the court she has attained the age of majority. Considering all the facts and circumstances of the case and without commenting on merit, it appears just to enlarge the accused/applicant on bail.

[case 289]
This petition for regular bail has been filed by petitioner - Tarun - an accused in FIR No. 57 dated 20. 9. 2017, under Sections 506/120-B IPC and Sections 8 and 10 of POCSO Act, 2012 and Section 75 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 registered with Police Station Women, Sector 13-17, HUDA, Panipat. Briefly stated, facts of the case as per prosecution story are that the victim aged about 9 years daughter of Saurabh Pruthi, resident of Model Town, Panipat has been a student of Class IV in Millennium School, Ansal City, Panipat; that on 20. 9. 2017 at about 9: 30 a. m. , Smt. Geetika, the mother of the victim received a telephonic call from a school Teacher, namely, Ms. Ritu Bedi that the victim was weeping and somebody had hurt her on the back and breast; thereafter, the complainant Saurabh Pruthi and his wife Smt. Geetika brought victim from the school to home; the victim was terrorised and under stress; she kept weeping continuously; at about 2: 30 p. m. , photo of marks of injury on the body of victim was forwarded to the Principal of the school; later on the victim told her father that a person, who was wearing green clothes caught hold of her with a bad intention in the wash room of girls in the school and pressed heavily on the back and breast threatening her that if she told anybody then he would teach her a lesson on the next day. The matter was reported to school Principal, who tried to hush up the same. On a written complaint submitted by complainant Saurabh Pruthi, formal FIR in the matter was recorded. The investigation in the case started. Accused was arrested in this case. He had filed an application for regular bail in the Court of Sessions, which was declined by learned Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge, Panipat vide order dated 6. 1. 2018, as such, he has approached this Court with same request.

[case 290]
This application, under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. , has been filed seeking following relief (s): "Petitioners, therefore, beg to pray that this petition may kindly be allowed and the charge sheet (Annexure P/1) and the proceedings of Criminal Case No. 278/2023 pending in the court of Shrimati Aarti Rotania, Judicial Magistrate Ist Class, Kolaras, District Shivpuri (M. P. ) be also kindly ordered to be quashed/set aside. " It is the case of prosecution that marriage of respondent No. 2 was performed with Kapil Singhal on 18. 04. 2014 in accordance with Hindu rites and rituals. Applicant No. 1 is the father-in-law and applicant No. 2 is the mother-in-law whereas applicant No. 3 was younger brother-in-law (Devar) of respondent No. 2, however, as he has expired during pendency of this application, therefore, his name has already been deleted. According to the prosecution case, respondent No. 2 lodged an FIR on 08. 05. 2023 alleging that she got married to Kapil Singhal in the year 2014 and after her marriage, applicants as well as her husband used to beat her by locking her inside the room. It was further alleged that three years back applicant No. 3 and Kapil Singhal left her at Badarwas bypass and were saying that she is mad and they will not keep her with them. Thereafter, complainant came to her parental home by walking. It was further alleged that applicants have illegally kept her minor daughter. Thereafter, about two months back her husband Kapil Singhal and applicant No. 1 came to her parental home. When she insisted to take her back to her matrimonial home, she was abused filthily and her husband Kapil Singhal caught hold of her hair and slapped her. Incident was intervened by her father, brother and others. Applicant No. 1 and her husband were tried to be convinced and persuaded but they did not listen to them and accordingly, FIR was lodged.

[case 291]
Abdul Husenmiya Shaikh vs The State Of Maharashtra And Anr on 2 September, 2021. By this application under Section 389 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 the Applicant seeks suspension of substantive sentence imposed by judgment dated 04/03/2021 passed by learned District Judge-2 and Additional Sessions Judge, Thane in Special (POCSO) Case No. 194 of 2018 and enlargement on bail. The Applicant was charged for offences under Sections 323, 354, 376, 377 and Section 506 of the IPC and Sections 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. By the impugned judgment, the learned Judge has held the Applicant guilty of offences punishable under Sections 323, 354 and 376 of the IPC r/w. Section 4 of the POCSO Act. He has been sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for ten years under Section 376 of the IPC and one year under Section 354 of the IPC and six months under Section 323 of the IPC. No separate sentence is imposed under Section 4 of POCSO Act. Charge against the Applicant is that he had committed rape / penetrative sexual assault on a minor girl aged about 8 years of age. The evidence of the victim prima facie indicates that the Applicant was involved in commission of the said crime. The medical evidence also suggests that there was evidence of penetrative vaginal intercourse. Thus, the material on record indicates that the Applicant, who is over 50 years of age has sexually abused the child who was barely 8 years of age as on the date of incident. The offence is not only grave but heinous in nature. There is prima facie material to believe that the Applicant was involved in commission of the crime. Considering the nature of accusations, gravity of offence and severity of punishment, in my considered view this is not a fit case for suspension of sentence and hence, the application is dismissed.

[case 292]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH AT GWALIOR CRA No. 7424 of 2022 (SANTOSH SEN Vs THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH) Dated: 02-12-2022 Shri Ashfaq Khan, learned counsel for the appellant. Shri Lokendra Shrivastava, learned Public Prosecutor for the State. Heard on I. A. No. 13476/2022, First application under Section 389 (1) of the Cr. P. C. , seeking suspension of sentence and grant of bail filed on behalf of the sole appellant- Santosh. Present appellant has been convicted vide judgment dated 05. 07. 2022 passed by Special Judge (POCSO), Shivpuri in S. S. T. No. 13/2021 for the offence punishable under Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Section 9 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and sentenced to undergo 20 years' RI and 01 year's RI with fine of Rs. 3000/- respectively with default stipulation. As per prosecution story, the appellant alleged to have abducted the prosecutrix and thereafter sexually abused her. On a missing report, the police came in action and find for the prosecutrix. After her recovery, the instant FIR was registered and challan was submitted and case was committed to Sessions Court for trial. The Sessions Court upon critical evaluation of the evidence placed on record convicted the appellant for the offences as aforesaid. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that in-fact the appellant has married with prosecutrix and they are blessed with baby girl. She has been recovered alongwith appellant and the baby girl pursuant to the FIR lodged. The whole case is based upon cooked up story. The impugned conviction of the present appellant is based on surmises and conjectures and de hors evidence on record particularly that of prosecutrix. Besides, he submits that the prosecutrix is present in the Court and identified by him. Hence, he prays for suspension of sentence and grant of bail.

[case 293]
Nikhil Rajendra Chandarana vs The State Of Maharashtra on 13 September, 2021. This is an application for anticipatory bail in C. R. No. 144 of 2021 registered with Kapurbawdi Police Station, Dist. Thane, for offences under Sections 498-A, 323, 504 & 506 r/w Section 34 of Indian Penal Code (for short 'IPC'). The First Information Report (for short 'FIR') was lodged on 8th May, 2021. The case of the complainant is that her marriage was performed with applicant on 1st August, 2015. Child was born out of wedlock on 1st November, 2016. For a period of one month she was treated well. In September, 2015 she was assaulted. She did not lodge complaint. In October 2016, she was slapped by applicant. On 27th September, 2020, the applicant abused complainant and her sister's husband and stated that she is having an affair with her sister's husband. Even thereafter, in March - 2021 she was abused, threatened and assaulted. He behaved indecently in presence of complainant and son. Applicant and his mother are continuously harassing complainant. Subsequently, complainant had alleged that the child was sexually abused by the applicant. The allegations with regards to child abuses are concocted. The FIR was registered 4 years after the complainant left the matrimonial home. Investigation is almost complete. The allegations about child abuse were not genuine. The complainant has preferred Writ Petition No. 2951 of 2021 challenging the inaction of the Police relating to the provisions of the POCSO Act which is pending. The station diary entry indicates that the child is in the custody of the mother since last six months. Prior to registration of the FIR, the complainant had initiated the proceedings under the Domestic Violence Act, which are pending before the appropriate Court. Therefore, the court granted anticipatory bail to the applicant.

[case 294]
Ravi Shankar vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 7 March, 2025. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 42208 of 2024. Applicant: - Ravi Shankar. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. And 3 Others. Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J. 1. None is present on behalf of the informant even in the revised call. 2. On telephonic conversation with the Investigating Officer, learned AGA has informed that the informant is out of station. 3. Heard Sri Phool Singh Yadav, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Sunil Kumar, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material placed on record. 4. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 171 of 2022, under Sections 376(3), 328, 506 of I. P. C. and Sections 5j(ii), (5n)/6 of POCSO Act, Police Station - Sikandra, District - Kanpur Dehat, during the pendency of trial. 5. Learned counsel argues that the applicant is innocent and falsely implicated. The FIR has a delay of about six months without explanation. 6. Learned counsel further states that the allegations are false. The DNA report indicates he is not the biological father of the child. 7. Several submissions have been made on behalf of the applicant to demonstrate the allegations' falsity. 8. The applicant is languishing in jail since 02. 09. 2022. 9. The A. G. A. has opposed bail, referencing the victim's advanced state of pregnancy and the need for justice. 10. This Court found that some witnesses have been examined. 11. Considering the submissions and the evidence on record, the Court feels the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed. 12. The conditions of bail set by the Court ensure no tampering with evidence. 13. If any conditions are breached, it is ground for cancellation of bail. 14. The observations made shall not affect the trial Judge's opinion based on witness testimony.

[case 295]
The present appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order of conviction and sentence dated 01. 04. 2022 and 02. 04. 2022 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge (POCSO Act), Islampur, Uttar Dinajpur in Sessions Trial No. 33/2019 arising out of POCSO Case No. 05 of 2019 wherein the appellant was convicted for the offence punishable under Section 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and sentenced to suffer Rigorous Imprisonment for six years and pay fine of Rs. 1, 00, 000/- in default to suffer further Simple Imprisonment for 6 months. The genesis of the case relates to a complaint lodged by one 'Y' with the Officer-in-charge, Chakulia Police Station, Uttar Dinajpur pursuant to which Chakulia PS Case No. 64/2019 dated 16. 02. 2019 was registered for investigation under Section 8/9(m) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The allegations made in the complaint were to the effect that the daughter of 'Y' namely, 'X' was aged about 9 years and was studying at Class III. She used to take tuition from the appellant at his house. For a considerable period of time the appellant/accused started touching her daughter with bad intentions. Being afraid her daughter did not inform at home. On 09. 01. 2019 at around 7. 30 in the morning her daughter went for tuition and accused in order to quench his sexual thirst touched the private parts and breast of her daughter and physically tortured her. At this her daughter felt severe pain and feeling ill she returned home weeping. When the complainant asked her, she informed regarding the aforesaid incident. It has been alleged that the accused had been oppressing her daughter since long for which she got mentally disturbed and as such there was delay in informing to the police station. She prayed for taking action against the accused.

[case 296]
Sri Ravi K S vs The State Of Karnataka on 9 August, 2024, Author: M. Nagaprasanna, Bench: M. Nagaprasanna. The petitioner is before this Court seeking quashment of the proceedings in Spl. Case 1137/2023 pending before the Additional District and Sessions Judge, FTSC-III, Bengaluru. A complaint comes to be registered by one Rathna, the mother of the minor victim, 2nd respondent herein, alleging that the victim was raped by one Ravi, the petitioner herein. The complaint indicates that the Petitioner, aged about 24 years made a bond with the victim, aged about 17 years 9 months. On 23-07-2023 the victim complained to her mother, Respondent No. 2 herein, stating that she had stomach pain, upon which Respondent No. 2 took her to Anupama Hospital for treatment. After examination, the doctor informed the 2nd respondent that her daughter was 5 months pregnant. The police have filed a charge sheet for the offences punishable under Section 376 of the IPC and sections 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ('POCSO Act' for short). Following the filing of the charge sheet, the victim after attaining majority got married to the Petitioner on 21-02-2024 with the consent of their elders. The marriage certificate dated 05-06-2024 is produced before this Court. During the pendency of the proceedings, the petitioner and the respondent No. 2 have filed an application u/s 320 r/w 482 of Cr. P. C. seeking to compound the offences. The petitioner is seeking relief from quashing the Charge Sheet in Spl. C. No. 1137/2023. The respondent No. 2 and the alleged victim have filed a separate affidavit, indicating an amicable settlement between the petitioner and the victim. The Court has previously quashed the proceedings on similar circumstances when the accused married the victim during the pendency of the proceedings.

[case 297]
K. Govindan vs State Of Kerala on 24 August, 2020 The sole accused in S. C. No. 840 of 2014 on the files of the First Additional Sessions Court, Kasaragod has come up in this appeal challenging his conviction and sentence in the said case. The accusation in the case is that from the year 2012, the accused has committed rape on the victim girl aged 12 years in a shed near her house at Adkathbayal Beach, thereby committing offences punishable under Sections 376(2)(f), 376(2)(i) and 376(2)(n) of the Indian Penal Code (the IPC) and Section 3 read with Section 4 and Section 7 read with Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (the POCSO Act). On the accused pleading not guilty of the charges, the prosecution examined 13 witnesses on its side as PWs. 1 to 13 and proved through them, nine documents as Exts. P1 to P9. Among the witnesses examined, PW1 is the Chairperson of the Kasaragod Child Welfare Committee, PW2 is the victim girl, and the medical evidence in this case throws serious doubt as to the genuineness of the prosecution case as spoken to by the victim girl. It is difficult to believe the case put forth by the victim girl that the accused has committed vaginal intercourse with her on several occasions. I take this view also for the reason that prior to Act 13 of 2013, it was obligatory for the prosecution to establish at least an attempt on the part of the accused to commit vaginal penetration. The maximum punishment provided for the offence under Section 354 of the IPC, prior to Act 13 of 2013 was two years rigorous imprisonment or with fine or with both. In the result, the appeal is allowed in part. The conviction of the appellant is altered to one under Section 354 of IPC and the appellant is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for two years and to pay a fine of Rs. 10, 000/-.

[case 298]
The present appeal has been preferred by the victim/informant and her father impugning the judgment dated 07. 03. 2019 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge-Ist-cum-Special Judge (POCSO Act), Sitamarhi in Trial No. 25 of 2017, arising out of Sursand P. S. Case No. 129 of 2017, whereby respondent No. 2 viz. , Sanjiv Kumar Singh has been acquitted of charges framed under Sections 376 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 4 and 12 of the POCSO Act. The prosecution case as emerging from the written report of the victim/informant addressed to Officer-in-charge, Sursand Police Station, District-Sitamarhi is that the victim is aged about 14 years. On 12. 05. 2017 her father had gone to Sursand market and mother had gone to Anganwari Centre and she was alone at home. In the meantime, at 12 O'clock her neighbour Sanjiv Kumar Singh, who is respondent no. 2 herein, entered into her courtyard and forcibly took her in room. When she raised voice, her mouth was closed by him by putting his hand and he started committing rape upon her. Despite efforts, she could not raise voice because her mouth was shut up by the respondent no. 2 by putting his hand on her mouth. In the meantime, incidentally her father came and after hearing her crying, he entered into the house. Then he started fleeing away. But the victim and her father raised hulla and on their hulla, many people assembled there. Respondent no. 2 made unsuccessful effort to flee away. He was apprehended by the people and taken to police station. On the basis of the written report, Sursand P. S. Case No. 129 of 2017 was registered against the sole accused, namely, Sanjiv Kumar Singh, for the offence punishable under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 4 and 12 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

[case 299]
This Criminal Appeal has been filed against the judgment and order passed by the Sessions Judge, Special Court for POCSO Act Cases, Cuddalore, in Spl. S. C. No. 64 of 2019 dated 23. 12. 2020, convicting and sentencing the accused/appellant in the following manner: Offence: Section 5(m) read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act read with Section 376-AB IPC, Sentence: Life imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/-, in default to undergo three months simple imprisonment. The case of the prosecution is as under: The victim child aged about 6 years was playing near the Mariamman temple and the appellant (A-1) is said to have lured the child as if he is going to get her chocolate and took the child to a building belonging to the local body and laid her on the floor, removed her inner garments and committed penetrative sexual assault on her. While doing this act, he had closed her mouth with his hand to ensure that the child did not make any noise. The appellant also threatened the child not to inform about this incident to anyone. After this incident, the child came back home and slept. She was woken up by her mother at 09. 30 p. m. and the child was running a temperature. After a lot of persuasion, the victim child informed her mother about the incident. The mother of the victim child went and questioned the sister of the appellant viz. , Manjula (A-2) about this incident and the said Manjula (A-2) is said to have abused the parents of the victim child in filthy language and threatened them. The mother of the victim child gave a complaint (Ex. P1) before the AWPS, Vridhachalam at 09. 00 a. m. on 15. 02. 2019 and an FIR (Ex. P6) came to be registered in Crime No. 2 of 2019 for the offences under Sections 5(m) and 6 of the POCSO Act and Section 376-AB, 294(b) and 506(I) IPC as against the appellant and his sister Manjula.

[case 300]
Rakesh Charandas Lonbale (In Jail) vs The State Of Maha. , Thr. P. S. O. , P. S. .. . on 7 June, 2017
The present appeal is directed against the judgment and order of conviction passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Chandrapur in Sessions Case No. 108/2003 on 10. 04. 2015. By the said judgment and order of conviction, the appellant is convicted for an offence punishable under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and is directed to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 2, 000/- in default to suffer further rigorous imprisonment of one year. The appellant is also convicted for an offence punishable under Sections 3 and 4 of the POCSO Act and no separate order of sentence was passed by the court below. The appellant is also convicted for the offence punishable under Section 343 of the IPC and on that count he is sentenced to suffer six month's rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 500/- and in default further rigorous imprisonment for 15 days. Though the appellant was charged for the offence punishable under Section 506 of the IPC, he was acquitted of the said charge.
The prosecutrix in this case will be referred to as 'K' so as to hide her identity. The FIR is lodged by 'K' herself on 08. 06. 2013 in Police Station Chandrapur (City). The oral report is available on record. After registration of the crime, 'K' was referred for medical examination along with a Lady Police Constable. The investigation was entrusted to Sudhir Kodape. The learned Additional Sessions Judge framed the charge against the appellant for the offence punishable under sections 343, 376 (2) (i) of the IPC and also under Section 354-A and 354-B of the IPC along with offences under the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act. The appellant abjured his guilt and claimed for his trial.

[case 301]
Delhi High Court Sushil Kumar Alias Raju vs State on 12 March, 2025 Author: Dharmesh Sharma Bench: Prathiba M. Singh, Dharmesh Sharma * IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI % Judgment reserved on: 18 February 2025 Judgment pronounced on: 12 March 2025 + CRL. A. 378/2002 SUSHIL KUMAR ALIAS RAJU. .. Appellant Through: Mr. Harsh Prabhakar, Mr. Anirudh Tanwar, Mr. Dhruv Chaudhry, Mr. Adeeb Ahmad & Ms. Eshita Pallavi, Advs. versus STATE. .. .. Respondent Through: Mr. Ritesh Kumar Bahri, APP with Ms. Divya Yadav, Adv. with Inspector O. P. Bishnoi and SI Anil Kumar PS Najafgarh. CORAM: HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE PRATHIBA M. SINGH HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE DHARMESH SHARMA JUDGEMENT DHARMESH SHARMA, J. 1. This judgment shall decide the above noted Criminal Appeal preferred by the appellant under Section 389 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ["Cr. P. C. "] assailing the judgment dated 02. 03. 2002 convicting him for committing an offence under section 302 Indian Penal Code, 1860 ["IPC"] followed by the order on sentence dated 18. 03. 2002 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, New Delhi (hereinafter referred as the 'trial Court'), whereby the appellant has been sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life with a fine of Rs. 3, 000/- and in default of payment of fine, to undergo Simple Imprisonment for a period of one month. FACTS OF THE CASE: 2. In short, the appellant was married to the victim, Anita Rani, on 07. 03. 1991. He was primarily charged for committing an offence under section 302 of the IPC for allegedly dousing the victim with kerosene oil, using two makeshift kerosene lamps, setting her ablaze on 05. 07. 1998 at approximately 5: 00 PM and fleeing the site through the back/rear exit of their house no. RZ-B-80, Old Roshan Pura, Najafgarh, Delhi. ..

[case 302]
State (Govt Of Nct) vs Kuldeep Kumar on 24 February, 2016
CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE G. S. SISTANI HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE SANGITA DHINGRA SEHGAL SANGITA DHINGRA SEHGAL, J. 1. Present leave to appeal petition has been filed by the State under Section 378 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure against the judgment dated 30. 03. 2015 passed by Ms. Neena Bansal Krishna, Additional Sessions Judge-01, Patiala House Courts, New Delhi in Session's Case No. 01/14, whereby the respondent was acquitted of the charges framed under Section 363/376/506 of the Indian Penal Code read with Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012. 2. The brief facts of this case, as noticed by the learned Trial Court in the judgment are enumerated as under: "The complainant Smt. Neelima Devi, gave a statement on 30. 09. 2013 that her younger daughter aged about fourteen years, had gone to her school in the morning at about 6. 30 AM, but she has failed to return back home. They made a search for her, but have not been able to trace her. On the complaint FIR under Section 363 IPC was registered. Investigations were carried by SI Sandeep Mann. The complainant informed the investigating officer that their earlier tenant Kuldeep Kumar may have taken away her daughter. A search was made for Kuldeep and he was found to be a resident of Gola Bazaar, Mainpuri, UP. Suraj, friend of accused Kuldeep came to the police station on 05. 10. 2013 and informed that about three to four days back, the prosecutrix had borrowed his phone and talked to the accused and that he suspected that the prosecutrix was with the accused. On this information, SI Sandeep Mann along with constable Sandeep and W/Const. Indu Bala went to the house of the accused at Mainpuri and recovered the prosecutrix from his house. The prosecutrix out of fear did not reveal anything. .. .

[case 303]
This is a case where accused Riasat Ali has faced trial for having committed the offences punishable under sections 354 and 509 of IPC and sections 8 and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 against a 17 years old girl child PW-1 (the victim/prosecutrix), namely, S (real name withheld in order to conceal her identity and hereinafter referred to as 'the victim'), on the allegations that he used criminal force against her to outrage her modesty, insulted her modesty and sexually harassed her by uttering obscene words and also committed sexual assault by touching her body with sexual intent. As per the facts of the case mentioned in the charge-sheet, the State machinery came into action on receipt of DD No. 51A dated 01. 04. 2015 by SI Raj Kumar. A complaint was lodged by the victim girl, namely, S, daughter of Riasat Ali that her father Riasat Ali used to consume liquor and thereafter he used to molest her and her sister. He used to beat them and also used to speak in vulgar language with them. She further alleged that when her mother used to intervene, then he also used to beat and abuse her. On the basis of the said complaint, FIR under sections 354 and 509 IPC and section 12 of POCSO Act was registered. Thereafter, on 02. 04. 2015, the accused Riasat Ali was arrested and the statement of the victim girl was got recorded under section 164 of Cr. P. C. , in which also the victim reiterated her version given in the FIR. During the investigation, the date of birth proof of the victim was collected, as per which, the date of birth of the victim was 06. 06. 1998. After concluding the investigation, the charge-sheet in the case for the offences punishable under sections 354/509 of IPC and section 12 of POCSO Act was prepared and filed before the court concerned.

[case 304]
Hafij Ansari @ Chhotey vs State Of U. P. And Another on 7 November, 2019. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD Case: - APPLICATION U/S 482 No. - 38130 of 2019 Applicant: - Hafij Ansari @ Chhotey Opposite Party: - State of U. P. and Another. The present application has been filed with a prayer to quash the entire proceedings of crime no. 33 of 2018, under Section 363, 366, 376 IPC and 3/4 POCSO Act, PS. Kubersthan, District Kushi Nagar. It has been argued by the learned counsel for the applicant that victim, who is daughter of the opposite party no. 2, has married accused-applicant and has child of six months born out of the wedlock. This aspect has not been taken into consideration by the Investigating Officer and has submitted charge sheet in this case in a routine manner which is nothing but an abuse of process and prosecution needs to be quashed. On the other hand, learned A. G. A. has drawn attention of the court to the statement of the victim under Section 164 Cr. P. C. , in which, she has stated that she had fled from her house of her own free will and has married accused-applicant and she is pregnant of six months. In ossification test, her age is found to be 17 years and 16 years as per F. I. R. , therefore, she was minor on the date of occurrence and was not competent to give consent for marriage, hence offence under Section 3/4 of POCSO Act as well as under Section 376 IPC would be made out in view of judgment of Apex Court rendered in Independent Thought vs. Union of India and another, (2017) 10 SCC 800, in which it is held that if a child is below 18 years, she would be treated to be child irrespective of the fact whether she is married or unmarried. If any intercourse is made with such child, the same would be fall in the category of rape, hence quashing should be refused.

[case 305]
Smt. Ranjana Chaudhari vs State Of U. P. & Another on 3 January, 2018. This criminal revision has been filed under Section 397/401 Cr. P. C. against the order dated 23. 9. 2017 passed by Additional Session Judge, Court No. 1, Pilibhit, whereby he allowed the application of prosecution under Section 319 Cr. P. C. And summoned the revisionist to face trial for offences under Sections 323, 504 and 506 IPC in S. T. No. 10 of 2016 (State Vs. Sarvjeet Singh) under Sections 376, 504 and 506 IPC and  POCSO Act, P. S. Sungarhi, District Pilibhit. It is stated in the grounds of revision that the impugned order has been passed absolutely against the spirit of the provision of Section 319 Cr. P. C. The first informant namely Shivani Gupta, her father Umesh Chandra Gupta and mother Smt. Poonam Gupta were produced under Section 311 of the Cr. P. C. , only to falsely implicate the revisionist as all of them were interested witnesses who sought private vendetta with ulterior motive to pressurize the revisionist. The power under Section 319 of the Cr. P. C. is conferred on the court to be used very sparingly which requires compelling reasons to exist for taking cognizance. No such compelling/cogent reason has been mentioned by the learned court below to justify the summoning of the revisionist. No satisfaction has been recorded by the court below to the effect that the evidence, if un-rebutted, would lead to conviction of the revisionist under Sections 323, 504 and 506 IPC. The revisionist was falsely and maliciously not named by her name but was named as wife of Sarvjeet Singh with two other boys with unknown names in the First Information Report. On the basis of no sufficient material being collected during investigation, charge sheet was not submitted against revisionist and the two other unknown boys.

[case 306]
The instant revision petition has been filed under Sections 397 and 401 read with Section 482 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ("Cr. P. C. ") assailing the order dated 06. 08. 2022 passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge-01 (POCSO), Central District, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi whereby the applications filed by the petitioners seeking discharge in Sessions Case No. 34/2022 in FIR No. 44/2021 dated 09. 02. 2021 were dismissed, and charges were framed under Sections 323/354/354B/451/506/509/34 IPC read with Section 10 of POCSO Act against petitioner no. 1 and 3, and under Sections 451/323/506/509/34 IPC against petitioner no. 2. The brief facts of the case, leading to the filing of present petition are that a complaint was made by one 'DC' against the petitioners/ accused persons namely Kumud Chawla, Aayush Chawla and Sunil Chawla wherein it was alleged that all three accused persons, on 17. 01. 2021, after committing house-trespass, caused hurt to the complainant and her minor girl child, used criminal force and also outraged the modesty of both of them while passing filthy remarks. It was also stated that they were criminally intimidated and death threats were also extended to the complainant. On the basis of said complaint, the present FIR bearing no. 44/21 was registered on 09. 02. 2021 under Sections 323/354/354B/451/506/509/34 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Section 8 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ("POCSO Act") at Police Station Prasad Nagar. Charge-sheet in the present case was filed on 28. 01. 2022, however arrest of none of them was deemed necessary by the Investigation Officer (IO). The petitioners were summoned vide order dated 28. 01. 2022 and all of them were admitted to bail on their appearance before the learned Trial Court on 03. 03. 2022.

[case 307]
Delhi District Court State vs Jagat on 12 January, 2015 SC No. 42/2/13 FIR No. 142/13 PS. Dwarka Sec. 23 State VS. Jagat. In the matter of: SC No. : 42/2/2013 FIR No. : 142/13 Police: Dwarka Sec. 23 Station Under: u/s 10 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The prosecution story in brief is that on 25. 05. 2013 on receipt of DD No. 26A, Constable Satpal had gone to Santram Ka Makan, Near Government School, VPO Bharthal, Dwarka Sec. 26, New Delhi where he met complainant. [The name of complainant is being withheld to protect her identity U/s 33(7) of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as POCSO Act). ] The complainant made a complaint against accused. In her complaint Ex. PW1/A, complainant had stated that she is residing alongwith her family as tenant in the house of Santram for the last two years and is a house wife. Complainant stated that when on 25. 05. 2013 at 9. 30 a. m. her neighbour Jagat, who is also residing as a tenant in the house of Santram after taking bath in the verandah was going to his room, then her daughter/child victim aged about 17 months by saying 'uncle-uncle' started following him. Complainant stated that after some time when she went to the room of Jagat, then she found accused Jagat sitting on his knees in a naked state and her daughter/child victim was standing in front of him and he had made her daughter/child victim hold his penis. Thereafter, she narrated the entire incident to his husband, who on his return from his work, called the police. On the basis of complaint of mother of child victim, FIR NO. 142/13 PS Dwarka Sec. 23 was registered and matter was taken up for investigation. After completion of investigation, accused was charge sheeted for the offence u/s 10 POCSO Act.

[case 308]
Chandrika Prasad vs State on 9 March, 2015 The appellant-Chandrika Prasad is aggrieved by a judgment dated 23. 01. 2014 of learned Additional Sessions Judge-01, Central/THC, Delhi in Sessions Case No. 67/2013 arising out of FIR No. 30/13 registered at Police Station Prasad Nagar by which he was held guilty for committing offences under Sections 354 IPC and Section 10 of POCSO Act. By an order dated 27. 01. 2014, he was awarded RI for five years with fine `2, 000/- under Section 10 of POCSO Act. Briefly stated, the prosecution case as reflected in the charge-sheet was that on 09. 02. 2013 and before that, in premises No. 16/1069 E Block, Khalsa Nagar, Tank Road, Karol Bagh, Delhi, 'X' (assumed name), aged 10 years, was sexually assaulted by the appellant and he outraged her modesty. The incident was reported to the police and daily dairy (DD) No. 27-A (Ex. PW-4/C) was recorded at 9. 28 p. m. at Police Station Prasad Nagar. The investigation was assigned to SI Amit Sharma who with Const. Mahavir Prasad went to the spot. After recording statement of the victim's father (Ex. PW-2/A), he lodged First Information Report. Statement of the prosecutrix was recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C; she was medically examined. The accused was arrested. Statement of witnesses conversant with the facts was recorded. After completion of investigation, a charge-sheet was filed against him in the court. The prosecution examined five witnesses to substantiate its case. In 313 statement, denying his complicity in the crime he pleaded false implication on account of non-payment of the price of Neelam stone given by him to the victim's mother. No evidence in defence was produced. The trial resulted in his conviction as aforesaid. Being aggrieved and dissatisfied, the appellant has preferred the appeal.

[case 309]
Fr. Robin Mathew vs State Of Kerala on 28 June, 2017 The petitioner herein stands indicted as the first accused in Crime No. 152/2017 of Kelakam Police Station for offences punishable under sections 376(2)(f)(n), 370, 201, 166(A), 118, 119, 506 (i), 120(B) read with section 34 IPC and section 5 (J) (ii) (1) (P) read with section 6, 8, 9(f) read with section 10, 16 read with section 17, section 19(1) read with section 21 (1) of POCSO Act and section 32 (1) read with sections 34, 75 & 80 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. It is alleged by the prosecution that, the first accused, who is a priest, sexually abused a 16 year old girl some time in May 2016. She conceived and delivered a male child on 7/2/2017 at a hospital. Crime was registered and the petitioner herein was arrested on 27/2/2017. He is in custody since then. After investigation, final report was laid on 19/4/2017. Learned Public Prosecutor submitted that the petitioner herein who being the Priest, had considerable influence over the child and misusing it, exploited her by committing rape. Thereafter, she conceived and when the case came up and the child was questioned, the child went to the extent of alleging that it was her father who did it. It was pointed out that the father was taken to custody, detained and at that point of time the girl revealed the complicity of the petitioner herein as alleged now. The victim initially went to the extent of implicating her own father possibly to save the priest. The possibility of the petitioner influencing the child still continues. The court indicated that if the petitioner is granted bail, it may affect a free and fair trial. Bail application fails and is dismissed. However, the court shall take every endeavor to expedite the trial.

[case 310]
Smt. Monika vs State Of U. P. And 2 Others on 15 July, 2019. The instant petition has been filed for production of corpus (Monika) and to set her free. This petition has been filed by Krishna Pratap claiming himself as husband of the corpus. A perusal of the record would reveal that a first information report was lodged at P. S. Khajuri Khas, District North East (NCT of Delhi) by maternal uncle of the corpus alleging that the corpus Monika daughter of Naveen Raghav, who is aged about 17 years, has been enticed away by accused Krishna Pratap (the petitioner herein). It appears that the victim was produced before the Child Welfare Committee, Bulandsahar. The Child Welfare Committee, upon finding the victim to be minor and on the statement of the victim that she does not wish to go with her parents, placed her in the Women Protection Home, Meerut. The learned A. G. A. has pointed out that in her matriculation certificate (High School Marks-sheet), which is there on record as Annexure No. 1 to the petition, the date of birth of the victim is recorded as 02. 10. 2001. The learned A. G. A. further submitted that as per Section 94 of the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (for short J. J. Act, 2015) preference is to be given to the date of birth recorded in a High School certificate over medical evidence and therefore the order of the Child Welfare Committee cannot be said to be illegal. The order passed by the Child Welfare Committee placing the corpus in a protection home would be within its powers conferred by section 37 of the J. J. Act, 2015. If the petitioner is aggrieved by the order of the Child Welfare Committee, the petitioner is at liberty to take recourse to the remedy of an appeal provided under Section 101 of the J. J. Act, 2015.

[case 311]
Gunjan Devi vs The State Of Bihar on 10 February, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL APPEAL (SJ) No. 5676 of 2024. The present appeal has been preferred against the judgment of acquittal dated 18. 10. 2024, passed in T. R. No. 98 of 2024, R. N. 44 of 2018 arising out of Complaint Case No. 44 of 2018, registered under sections 376, 511, 341, 323, 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code, Section 4 of the POCSO Act and Sections 3(i)(x) of the Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act but the learned Additional District and Sessions Judge-VI-cum Special Judge, POCSO Act, Samastipur has taken cognizance under sections 354, 341, 323, 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code, Section 8 of the POCSO Act and under sections 3(1)(2)(3)(w) of the Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against the accused persons namely Vijay Rai and Ajay Rai and further under sections 354, 341, 323, 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and under sections 3(1)(r)(s)(w) of the Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against Anil Rai and Laxman Rai in which charges were framed under sections 354, 341, 323, 504 and 506 of Indian Penal Code passed by the learned Additional District and Sessions Judge VI cum Special Judge, POCSO Act, Samastipur, whereby and where under the respondent nos. 2 to 5 have been acquitted from the charges erroneously and the appellant has been noticed to file show cause in light of section 22 of the PCSO Act. Further the appellant has also moved before this Hon'ble Court to convict the respondent nos. 2 to 5 with highest punishment for the grave offence committed by them in the interest of the justice and also to grant compensation to the victims as provided under the Act.

[case 312]
Sujatha Aged 40 Years vs State Of Kerala on 18 November, 2017. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM. PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE SUNIL THOMAS. MONDAY, THE 23RD DAY OF JULY 2018 / 1ST SRAVANA, 1940. Crl. MC. No. 3978 of 2018. PETITIONER: SUJATHA AGED 40 YEARS W/O. MADHU, THULLAKALATHIL HOUSE MUTHUVILAKADU PADINJATTETHIL MUTHUVILAKADAU P O SHASTHAMKOTTA, KOLLAM DISTRICT (MOTHER OF THE VICTIM MINOR GIRL) BY ADVS. SRI. J. R. PREM NAVAZ SRI. P. T. SHEEJISH. RESPONDENTS: STATE OF KERALA, DISTRICT POLICE CHIEF, KOLLAM RURAL, KOLLAM DISTRICT-, DEPUTY SUPERINTENDENT OF POLICE DYSP OFFICE KOTTARAKKARA PIN 691 506, THE SUB INSPECTOR OF POLICE, SHASTHAMKOTTA POLICE STATION, KOLLAM DISTRICT-, CBCID CRIME BRANCH, KOLLAM DIVISION KOLLAM DISTRICT-, AKHIL V KUTTAN, S/O. OMANAKUTTAN, RESIDING AT ARUNALAYAM MUTHUVILAKADU PO SHASTHAMKOTTA KOLLAM DISTRICT-. BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR: SMT V SREEJA. THIS CRIMINAL MISC. CASE HAVING BEEN FINALLY HEARD ON 06. 07. 2018, THE COURT ON 23. 07. 2018 PASSED THE FOLLOWING: Crl. MC. No. 3978 of 2018. ORDER. Petitioner, who is the defacto complainant in Crime No. 1884 of 2017 of Sasthamcotta Police Station in Kollam district for offences punishable under sections 451, 506(i), 354 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act 2012 and section 3(1)(w)(i) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989 (Amendment 2015) has moved this Court for a direction to the investigating agency to direct the second respondent to constitute a special team for investigation into the above crime or to entrust the investigation to a senior police officer of the Crime Branch. The grievance of the petitioner herein is that, the police is not effectively investigating the case.

[case 313]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 12TH DAY OF OCTOBER, 2020 BEFORE: THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE K. SOMASHEKAR CRIMINAL PETITION No. 9206 OF 2016 BETWEEN: MRS. MARY PAUL W/O MANUEL PAUL AGED ABOUT 57 YEARS EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF VATSALYA CHARITABLE TRUST KALYANA NAGAR HRBR LAYOUT, BANASAWADI BENGALURU-560 043. .. . PETITIONER (BY SRI. J. HUDSON SAMUEL, ADVOCATE) AND: 1. THE STATE OF KARNATAKA BY MANDYA WEST POLICE REP. BY STATE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR 2. CHILDREN WELFARE COMMITTEE MANDYA DISTRICT MANDYA REP. BY ITS PRESIDENT. .. .RESPONDENTS (BY SRI K. NAGESHWARAPPA, HCGP FOR R1 & R2) THIS CRIMINAL PETITION IS FILED UNDER SECTION 482 OF CR. P. C. PRAYING TO QUASH THE PROCEEDINGS IN SPL. CASE NO. 187/2016 PENDING ON THE FILE OF 1 ADDITIONAL DISTRICT AND SESSIONS JUDGE, MANDYA. THIS CRIMINAL PETITION COMING ON FOR ADMISSION THROUGH VIDEO CONFERENCING, THIS DAY, THE COURT MADE THE FOLLOWING: ORDER This is a petition filed by the petitioner/accused No. 3 seeking to quash the proceedings in Special Case No. 187 of 2016, pending on the file of 1st Additional District and Sessions Judge, Mandya. The charge-sheet has been laid against the accused relating to Cr. No. 73 of 2013 for the offences punishable under Sections 354 and 376 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short, hereinafter referred to as the POCSO Act) r/w Section 34 of I. P. C. Accused No. 1 Dr. Manjunath and Accused No. 2 Ramachandra Rao being his father, arraigned as accused Nos. 1 and 2 in Cr. No. 73 of 2013 and the crime came to be registered by the Mandya West Police Station, based upon the complaint given by the petitioner/informant herein namely, Mrs. Mary Paul who has been arraigned as accused No. 3 in the aforesaid crime.

[case 314]
The above referred revisional applications challenging an order passed by the trial court rejecting petitioners' applications under Section 227 of the Code of Criminal Procedure praying for their discharge arise out of one and identical case. Therefore, this Court proposes to dispose of the aforesaid revisional applications by passing the following judgment for the sake of convenience and brevity of discussion. One Smt. Apurba Ray and her husband being issueless married couple approached the competent authority expressing their desire to adopt a child. After due verification and home study of the prospective adoptive parents, a girl child aged about 9 years and 8 months was handed over to the opposite party No. 2 on 13th July, 2021 and in terms of the provisions of the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act, 1956 the proposed adoptive parents filed an application before the learned District Judge, Howrah which was registered as Misc Case No. 93 of 2021 for taking adoption of the aforesaid girl child by the opposite party No. 2 and her husband. The learned District Judge, Howrah allowed the petitioners (opposite party No. 2 herein and her husband) to adopt the said girl child vide order dated 30th July, 2021. The girl child was declared as the adoptive child of the opposite party No. 2 and her husband. Subsequently, opposite party No. 2 lodged a written complaint before the women police station, Howrah police commissionerate on the basis of which FIR case No. 31 of 2021 dated 20th November, 2021 under Section 376AB/376(2)(d) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 4/6/17 of the POCSO Act and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 was registered against the petitioners of the above mentioned revisions and others.

[case 315]
Baburao S/O. Govinda Kumoti (In Jail) vs State Of Maharashtra Thr. Pso Police. .. on 2 May, 2018. .. The appellant-accused is aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 27-10-2016 rendered by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Gadchiroli in Special POCSO Case 12/2015, by and under which the accused is convicted for offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the Indian Penal Code ('IPC' for short) and Section 4 read with Section 17 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ('POCSO Act' for short) and is further convicted for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC and is sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to payment of fine of Rs. 3, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 4 read with Section 17 of the POCSO Act and to suffer rigorous imprisonment for three years and to payment of fine of Rs. 2, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC. Separate sentence for offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the IPC is not awarded. .. . The evidence of P. W. 2 who is the mother of the victim and P. W. 5 Someshwar Gota, to the extent both state that when the door of the room was opened the accused and the victim were in naked condition, is not shaken in the cross-examination. However, the version of the victim that the accused threatened her with an iron bar and subjected her to sexual intercourse, is not at all implicitly reliable and confidence inspiring. P. W. 7 Sagar Khare, the Investigating Officer, admits that the house of the accused is of two rooms in which the accused used to reside with his wife and three children and mother. The victim admits that on the day of the incident the wife and children of the accused were at home.

[case 316]
The petitioners, who are A2 to A5 in Crime No. 67 of 2024 for the offences under Sections 5(1), 6 and 17 of TN Prohibition of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Section 506(1) of IPC and Section 9, 10 and 11 of TN Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, had filed this quash application. The contention of the petitioners is that the first petitioner is the husband of victim/second respondent, second and third petitioners are mother and mother-in-law of the victim and the fourth petitioner is the mother of A2. The defacto complainant /victim had lodged a complaint stating that when she was studying in Mudukulathur Pallivasal Higher Secondary School, she used to travel in TATA ACE vehicle along with her schoolmates, which was driven by one Balamurugan. Later, the said Balamurugan, on 16. 12. 2022, called the victim girl to his house and on promise to marry her committed penetrative sexual assault. They continued to their relationship, which was objected by her parents and later, marriage was held between the victim and the first petitioner/A2 on 01. 07. 2024. The victim was minor when she had relationship on 16. 12. 2022 as well as 14. 12. 2023 and hence, case was registered. Now, the victim and the first petitioner/A2 are living as husband and wife and the petitioners 3 to 5, mother, mother-in-law and grand-parent, all agreed to her marriage and living as one family. The victim has attained majority and the victim had filed an affidavit confirming the marriage and her relationship and she and the first petitioner are living as husband and wife. Further submitted that the first petitioner is the only earning member, supporting the entire family and now, they are living happily. In view of the same, now the victim had filed a compromise memo.

[case 317]
Ashok Ramchandra Shewale vs The State Of Maharashtra on 30 March, 2021. On 19th April 2019, a complaint was lodged at N. M. Joshi Marg Police Station by the mother of a child, aged 13 years 6 months, reporting about sexual assault upon her special child. It is alleged by her that on 19th April 2019, her another daughter informed that when the victim girl had gone to the toilet on the first floor of a building in a chawl, on 17th April 2019 at 9. 00 p. m, the Applicant - a resident of the same building latched the door from inside and sexually abused her. When the victim girl was taken into confidence, she narrated that after the applicant entered into the toilet and he latched the door, she was kissed by him on her lips and he also inappropriately touched her chest and her private part. He also threatened that if she informed about the said incident, she would have to meet with dire consequences. Based on the said narration, the complainant approached the police station on 19th April 2019 about the incident which took place on 17th April 2019 and lodged the FIR. The victim was forwarded for medical examination and was examined on 20th April 2019 after obtaining her consent. The history of the sexual assault narrated by the victim's mother is in sync with what she had disclosed. The child was medically examined and the opinion recorded was multiple old healed hymenal tears. The statement of the victim girl was also recorded, reiterating the entire incident. The FIR was registered under various sections of the POCSO Act, and upon examination, charges were modified to include Section 376. However, lack of direct allegations of rape concerning penetration complicates the case under Section 375 IPC. The trial will clarify the charges.

[case 318]
State vs. Mohd. Firoz Ansari on 28 March, 2018 IN THE COURT OF SH PRITAM SINGH: ASJ04/ DWARKA COURT: NEW DELHI Sessions Case No. 440684/16 State vs. Mohd. Firoz Ansari FIR No. : 343/2015 Police Station: Dabri Under Sections: 506 IPC and section 6 r/w section 5(l) (m) (n) (j) (ii) of POCSO Act Date of presentation of charge sheet: 06. 05. 2015 Date on which judgment was reserved: 23. 03. 2018 Date on which judgment was pronounced: 28. 03. 2018 JUDGMENT: 1. In brief, the case of the prosecution is that on 18. 03. 2015 a complaint was made by the child victim to the police stating that her father had left her mother about 10 years ago and her mother married accused, Firoz and he had been residing with her mother for last 10 years and she and her sister addressed the accused as 'Papa'. In the year 2013 the mother of child victim was sleeping alongwith the sister of child victim on the roof and the child victim was sleeping in the room as she was not feeling well. The accused came in the room in the drunken condition and started touching the child victim and when she got up, the accused closed her mouth and asked her to keep quite and threatened her. FIR No. 343/2015 P. S. Dabri 1 of 33 State vs. Mohd. Firoz Ansari The accused raped the child victim and again threatened her not to tell anyone. Therefore, the accused raped the child victim 23 times. One day, when the child victim was not well her mother took her to DDU Hospital and after her medical check up, the doctor told them that she was pregnant of three and half months. On this, the child victim told her mother about the incidents. The mother of the child victim asked the accused about the incidents, on this he threatened her mother, due to which she did not tell to anyone. ..

[case 319]
The present appeal is directed against the judgment dated 25. 5. 2019, passed by learned Sessions Judge, Special Court (POCSO Act), Kinnaur, H. P. , vide which the appellant (child in conflict with law 'CCL' before learned Trial Court) was convicted of the commission of offences punishable under Sections 376 and 342 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act) and was sentenced as under:
Under Section 376 of IPC/Section 4 of POCSO Act. To suffer rigorous imprisonment for a period of seven years, pay a fine of 10, 000/- and in default of payment of fine, to undergo simple imprisonment for one year.
Under Section 342 of IPC To suffer simple imprisonment for one year, pay a fine of 1, 000/- and in default of payment of fine, to undergo further simple imprisonment for three months.
Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present appeal are that the police presented a challan against the CCL for the commission of offences punishable under Sections 376, 342 and 506 of IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act. It was asserted that the victim and her younger brother had gone to fetch water on 2. 11. 2016 at some distance from the village. The CCL came to the spot in a state of intoxication. He dragged the victim into a cowshed near the tap and raped her. He bolted the cowshed and went away from the spot. The victim's sister searched for her. She found someone crying inside the cowshed. She opened the door. The victim reached her home and narrated the incident to her father. The police registered the FIR (Ex. PW13/F) and conducted the investigation. The police filed a charge sheet against the CCL after the completion of the investigation before the Juvenile Justice Board.

[case 320]
The appellant Ashok Jaiswal son of Sh. Ramadhar Jaiswal vide the present appeal assails the judgment dated 22. 05. 2018 of the Court of the learned ASJ-01-cum- Presiding Officer of Special POCSO Court, East, KKD Courts, New Delhi in relation to FIR No. 664/2015, vide which the appellant was convicted for the commission of an offence punishable under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012 for having committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault falling within the ambit of Section 5(m) of the said enactment in relation to a child aged 4 years at the time when the incident took place. The appellant has also assailed the impugned order on sentence dated 25. 05. 2018, whereby, he was sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of 10 years and was directed to pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- qua the offence punishable under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and in default of the payment of the said fine to further undergo Simple Imprisonment for a period of one month. The fine on recovery was directed to be paid to the victim child as compensation under Section 357(1) Cr. P. C. , 1973 and the benefit of Section 428 of the Cr. P. C. , 1973 was also given to the appellant. Directions were also issued by the learned Trial Court to the DLSA, East for payment of appropriate compensation to the victim child as per rules. CRL. M. A. 37137/2019 seeking condonation of delay of 430 days in the institution of the appeal. In view of the factum that the appellant was in custody with the appeal having been prepared after the visit of the jail visiting advocate after getting the Trial Court Record from the Delhi High Court Legal Services Committee was allowed vide order dated 27. 09. 2019 and the said delay in the institution of the appeal was condoned.

[case 321]
M. Veersamy. . Petitioner in both writ petitions Vs. 1. State of Tamilnadu, represented by Home Secretary, Secretariat, Fort St. George, Chennai. 2. District Collector, Madurai District, Collectorate, Madurai. 3. Superintendent of Police, O/o. Superintendent of Police, Madurai District, Madurai. .. Respondents. .. .
PROLOGUE: "Child Sexual Abuse happens because the system of silence around the act perpetuates it. "
"Child Sexual Abuse represses children; the repression of children is unlikely to create a flourishing society, economically, emotionally, equally or spiritually".
2. Indian Scenario: 2. 1. In order to examine the incidence of sexual abuse among child respondents, the questionnaire was administered to 12, 447 children. .. . Out of the total child respondents, 53. 22% reported having faced one or more forms of sexual abuse that included severe and other forms. .. .
5. Abuses in abundance: 5. 1. The petitioner's wife filed a complaint with the Inspector of Police, Koodalnagar Police Station. .. alleging that her daughter. .. were sexually abused by the Headmaster of the school. .. .
18. Monitoring of the case: 18. 1. Though the counsel for the petitioner urged this court should continue to monitor the case, this court finding such process is difficult. .. directed the Superintendent of Police, Madurai Rural. ..
16. Compensation for the victims: 16. 1. In the present case, number of children who were affected belonged to SC community. .. the District Collector, Madurai is directed to award the compensation. ..

[case 322]
Sreesh P. T vs The State Of Kerala on 17 January, 2019. This application is filed under  439 of the Cr. P. C. The applicant claims to be a teenager. He finds himself arrayed as the sole accused in Crime No. 350 of 2018 of the Thottilpalam Police Station. In the aforesaid case, he faces accusations of having committed offence punishable under Sections 354, 363 & 376 of the IPC and Section 7 r/w. Section 8 and Section 3 r/w. Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. According to the prosecution, on 8. 10. 2018, the police was alerted that a minor child was found in the house of the applicant under suspicious circumstances. They reached the spot and questioned the child. She disclosed about her whereabouts and on the strength of the said information, her mother was informed. Based on the statement of the mother, the Crime was initially registered under Sections 363 and 354 and the relevant provisions of the POCSO Act, 2012. On further questioning, she is alleged to have disclosed that she was in a relationship with the applicant herein and on an earlier occasion, she had gone to the house of the applicant near Semitherimukku and he had subjected her to penetrative sexual intercourse. The learned counsel appearing for the applicant contends that the applicant is innocent. He is from a poor background, whereas the parents of the victim are affluent. The learned Public Prosecutor strenuously opposed the prayer. The allegations are extremely grave. However, it is fairly submitted that after completion of the investigation, final reports have already been laid in both the crimes. In the result, this application will stand allowed. The applicant shall be released on bail under specific conditions.

[case 323]
The petitioner herein is the mother of a 5 years old minor girl child, born through her husband K. Subramani. While the 3rd respondent herein is the elder sister of the petitioner, who ordinarily resides at Singapore, the 4th respondent is her mother, who resides at Mannargudi, Tamil Nadu. When the petitioner got an employment at Chennai and was not able to locate a residential accommodation in time and also since both herself and her husband were employed, she had temporarily left her minor daughter in the custody of her mother/4th respondent herein on 14. 10. 2023 at Mannargudi. Thereafter, she used to visit her child every weekend. On 30. 11. 2023, when the petitioner was informed that her daughter was brought to Chennai, she had visited her in the presence of both the 3rd and 4th respondents. On the next day, i. e. , on 01. 12. 2023, the petitioner's husband was arrested by the 1st respondent Police in connection with Crime No. 477/2023 for the offences under Sections 5(m)(n)(l) and 6(1) of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as 'POCSO Act') and remanded to judicial custody, based on the 3rd respondent's complaint that he had sexually assaulted his daughter. After this incident, both 3rd and 4th respondents had retained custody of the child and refused to hand her over to the petitioner. In this connection, the petitioner had given a written complaint dated 08. 12. 2023 to the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar, for retrieving her child and for taking action against the 3rd and 4th respondents. Since there was no response to the complaint given, she has filed the present Habeas Corpus Petition (HCP), seeking for securing her child and handing over the custody to her.

[case 324]
Mr. Nissar Ahmed vs State Of Karnataka on 24 February, 2025 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 24TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2025 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MRS JUSTICE M G UMA WRIT PETITION NO. 7925 OF 2021. Petitioners being accused Nos. 1 to 7 are seeking to quash the criminal proceedings initiated against them in Crime No. 77/2021 of Mico Layout police station, pending on the file of the learned VI Additional CMM Court, Bengaluru, for the offences punishable under Sections 506, 294 and 503 read with Section 34 of Indian Penal Code. Brief facts of the case are that, respondent No. 2 as informant lodged the first information with Mico Layout police station against petitioners-accused Nos. 1 to 7 alleging that they being the Chairman, Vice Chairman, Director, Principal, Head Mistress, COD Middle School, Admin Associate of Presidency School, Bengaluru have not declared the results, rather withheld the same and they have mentally and physically harassed the students. They are blackmailing the children and thereby committed the above mentioned offences. Crime No. 77/2021 of Mico Layout Police Station was registered and the investigation was undertaken. In the meantime, the petitioners have approached this Court. Several complaints were registered against the accused with the Department of Education, Government of Karnataka, regarding violation of Education Laws by the management of the School. It is stated that the management targeted the students and prevented them from attending regular classes, and also withheld their results. Being aggrieved by the same, the parents of the students approached Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, alleging violation of rights of the students.

[case 325]
This Appeal is directed against the judgment and order dated 26. 09. 2019 in Special Criminal (Child) Case No. 34 of 2017, passed by the learned Special Judge, Bhandara, by which the appellant / accused is convicted under Section 6 of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as POCSO Act), and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 10 years and also to pay a fine of Rs. 2, 000/-, in default of payment of fine, Simple Imprisonment for two months. The prosecution case, in brief, is as under: The informant is the mother of the prosecutrix. The age of the prosecutrix at the relevant time was five years. The date of the incident is 05. 06. 2017. In her report, the informant - PW-1 has stated that on 05. 06. 2017 she was alone in the house with her minor children as her husband had gone for agricultural operations in the field. In the afternoon, at around 3. 00 PM, she was busy in her household work while prosecutrix had gone out. At around 3. 30 PM, the prosecutrix came weeping and on inquiry from her, the prosecutrix informed that she had gone to the maternal aunt's house to watch TV and the accused was alone in the house and he inserted his finger in her vagina. The informant examined her knicker and noticed blood and also injury in her private parts. The informant washed her daughter's clothes and body and applied oil to her private parts. When her husband reached home in the evening, they lodged a report. Accordingly, First Information Report came to be registered against the appellant/ accused for the offence punishable under Section 376(2)(i)(j) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 4 & 6 of the POCSO Act and the criminal law was set into motion.

[case 326]
In the matter of:  SC No. : 62/02/13 FIR No. : 127/13 Police Station: Dwarka South Case ID No. : 02405R0233062013 Under Section: u/s 342/34 & U/s 323/34, U/s 109 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and U/s 4 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 28. 04. 2013, an information was received in P. S Dwarka South regarding quarrel taking place between some ladies. The said information was recorded vide DD no. 15 PP and was marked to HC Satbir Singh. Thereafter HC Satbir Singh reached at the spot where he met the child victim The child victim gave complaint in writing. In her complaint, she alleged that her aunt had beaten her up and abused her and had taken her mobile phone away, due to which she was unable to call her husband, and she also alleged that her uncle and another relative had committed rape upon her. Based on her complaint, FIR no. 127/13 was registered for offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and POCSO Act. During investigation, the victim was interviewed under Cr. P. C, and she stated that her aunt had abetted the commission of rape by another uncle and had abused her. While a medical examination was suggested, the child victim refused. After investigation, a chargesheet was filed against the accused persons. In trial, the child victim denied the allegations she previously made, claiming she was pressured to lie. With no incriminating evidence coming to light against the accused, all were acquitted. Notably, due to the specific protections under the POCSO Act, the child victim cannot be prosecuted for making false claims. The court ordered the accused to furnish a personal bond to appear in the appellate court if necessary.

[case 327]
Jitendra Shakya vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 19 July, 2023
Shri Atul Gupta-Advocate for appellant.
Shri S. S. Kushwaha-Public Prosecutor for respondent - State.
Heard on I. A. No. 1743/2023, which is first application under Section 389(1) of Cr. P. C. moved on behalf of sole appellant - Jitendra Shakya seeking suspension of sentence and grant of bail.
Present appellant stood convicted under Section 450 of IPC and sentenced to undergo 05 years RI with fine of Rs. 500/-, under Section 328 of IPC and sentenced to undergo 05 years RI with fine of Rs. 500/- and under Sections 5(G) and 6 of POCSO Act with life imprisonment with fine of Rs. 5, 000/- with default stipulation vide judgment of conviction and order of sentence dated 28. 09. 2021 passed by the fifth Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge (POCSO Act), Bhind, (Madhya Pradesh) in Sessions Trial No. 122/2019.
As per prosecution story, an FIR was lodged on 13/05/2019 by the parents of the prosecutrix to the effect that at about 12: 00 O'clock in the night, on 11/05/2019, when their daughter/prosecutrix (PW-2), aged about 16 years was sleeping in the courtyard, other son and daughter were sleeping on the terrace and they had gone away to attend a marriage ceremony, accused persons i. e. Jitendra (present appellant), Rohit and a juvenile (child in conflict with law) entered the house and forcibly made the prosecutrix consume alcoholic drink. Thereafter, she was subjected to sexual abuse. On such allegations, FIR was lodged and after collection of incriminating material, the investigating officer filed challan. The Special Court upon critical evaluation of the evidence placed on record has convicted and sentenced the present appellant as referred above.

[case 328]
Km. Rachna and Another vs State Of U P And 4 Others on 8 March, 2021. This writ petition has been listed before us in view of reference made by a Division Bench of this Court, considering the various provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015 and the law laid down by various Courts. While referring the case to Hon'ble the Chief Justice to constitute a larger Bench, the Division Bench framed following issues to be decided by the larger Bench: '(1) Whether a writ of habeas corpus is maintainable against the judicial order passed by the Magistrate or by the Child Welfare Committee appointed under Section 27 of the Act, sending the victim to Women Protection Home/Nari Niketan/Juvenile Home/Child Care Home? ; (2) Whether detention of a corpus in Women Protection Home/Nari Niketan/Juvenile Home/Child Care Home pursuant to an order (may be improper) can be termed/viewed as an illegal detention? ; and (3) Under the Scheme of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, the welfare and safety of child in need of care and protection is the legal responsibility of the Board/Child Welfare Committee and as such, the proposition that even a minor cannot be sent to Women Protection Home/Nari Niketan/Juvenile Home/Child Care Home against his/her wishes, is legally valid or it requires a modified approach in consonance with the object of the Act? The present Habeas Corpus Writ Petition has been filed by the petitioners seeking a writ of habeas corpus, commanding 4th respondent/Superintendent, Children Home (Girl), District Saharanpur to release corpus/2nd petitioner Km. Anchal, who has been illegally detained in the Children Home (Girl) District Saharanpur.

[case 329]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Sammi @ Vijay Lot vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 22 November, 2016 CRA-1245-2016 (SAMMI @ VIJAY LOT Vs THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH) 22-11-2016 Shri Vijay Sharma, learned counsel for the appellant. Shri Pankaj Wadhwani, learned counsel for the respondent/State. Heard learned counsel for the parties on I. A. No. 9318/2016, an application under Section 389(1) Cr. P. C. for suspension of custodial sentence. The appellant has been convicted under Section 3 read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and Section 377 of IPC and has been sentenced to 7 years RI with fine under Section  of POCSO Act. No separate sentence has been imposed for offence under Section 377 IPC. Learned counsel for the appellant has invited the attention of this Court to the Court statement of complainant/victim - a child of about 13 years and has submitted that there are material contradictions and omissions. Per contra, it is submitted by learned counsel for the State that a child of 13 to 14 years was sexually abused and that not only the victim but other witnesses have also deposed about the incident and that learned trial Court after due appreciation of evidence, has recorded the conviction, therefore, considering the seriousness of the offence, it is not a fit case for grant of suspension. After going through the record and on consideration of the submissions made by learned counsel for the parties, this Court is of the considered view that it is not a fit case for suspension of custodial sentence because the victim has clearly spoken about the sexual assault and the learned trial Court after due appreciation has found the same worthy of prudence. Accordingly, the I. A. No. 9318/13 is rejected.

[case 330]
Prithiviraj vs The State Represented By on 14 March, 2022. This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the proceedings in Special Sessions Case No. 75 of 2020 on the file of the Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases, Under POCSO Act, Cuddalore for the offence under Sections 5(j) (ii), 5(l) and Section 6(ii) of POCSO Act, 2012. The gist of the case is that the second respondent/defacto complainant Ananthi is mother of the victim girl. On 27. 03. 2020, while her younger daughter Thillainayagi was going to defecation, the petitioner induced with the victim girl, on a false promise of marriage and had sexual intercourse with her, due to which, the victim girl had become pregnant. At that time, the victim girl was aged about 16 years 10 months only. Based on the complaint given by the second respondent/defacto complainant, a case in Crime No. 8 of 2020 was registered for offences under Sections 5(j) (ii), 5(l) and Section 6(ii) of POCSO Act, 2012. The first respondent after completion of the investigation, has filed the final report and the case has been taken in Special Sessions Case No. 75 of 2020 on the file of the Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases, Under POCSO Act, 2012, Cuddalore for the offence under Sections 5(j) (ii), 5(l) and Section 6(ii) of POCSO Act, 2012. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing for the first respondent would submit that the petitioner and the victim girl belong to the same community and they are known to each other for long. On 27. 03. 2020, the petitioner had sexual intercourse with the victim girl, due to which, the victim girl has become pregnant, thereafter, the victim girl had delivered a male child.

[case 331]
BEFORE THE MADURAI BENCH OF MADRAS HIGH COURT Dated: 12. 06. 2018 CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE C. T. SELVAM AND THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE A. M. BASHEER AHAMED R. T. (MD) No. 2 of 2017 Mari. .. Accused Vs. State of Tamil Nadu, In the case of Cr. No. 71 of 2013, Rameswaram Temple Police Station, Ramanathapuram District. Through State Public Prosecutor. .. Reference under Section 366 of the Code of Criminal Procedure seeking confirmation of the death sentence imposed on the accused on 03. 11. 2017 in Special S. C. No. 2 of 2017 by the Fast Track Mahila Court, Ramanathapuram. .. . The appellant/accused has filed the Criminal Appeal, challenging the judgment, dated 03. 11. 2017. .. The prosecution case is that appellant, his wife and their children resided at Rameswaram. One month prior to the occurrence, there was a quarrel between the accused and his wife P. W. 2 - Dhanusura Banu. Owing thereto, P. W. 2 left along with her younger son Vasanth and younger daughter deceased Mahathi to P. W. 3 - Sutha's house at Nalupanai. .. . On 22. 04. 2013 when P. W. 2 went to Dharapuram, she took her younger son Vasanth and deceased Mahathi from Nalupani to Karayur. On the evening of 23. 04. 2013 the accused came drunk and took the deceased under pretext of getting her snacks. He asked money from his brother P. W. 12 Murugan, who gave Rs. 50/- to the deceased and asked both the accused and deceased to go home. Thereafter, the accused sexually assaulted the deceased. The deceased became unconscious and with intention to hide his act, accused threw the child into the sea and caused her death. .. . The accused was arrested and eventually sentenced to death. This court is now hearing the appeal regarding the confirmation of this sentence.

[case 332]
Sanjay Alias Machhi vs State Of Haryana on 19 September, 2018. This petition for regular bail has been filed by petitioner - Sanjay alias Machhi- an accused in FIR No. 459 dated 17. 5. 2018, under Sections 341, 354-A, 354-D, 506 IPC (Section 8 of POCSO Act added later on), registered with Police Station Chandni Bagh, District Panipat. Briefly stated, the facts of the case, as per the prosecution story, are that the complainant(name not being mentioned to conceal her identity and referred to as 'the victim') daughter of Dharamvir, resident of Shashtri Colony, Panipat, a student of 10th class in R. S. High School, Panipat had lodged the FIR in question by submitting a written complaint to Incharge, Police Post Kishanpura, Panipat. Inter alia in the complaint, she submitted that when she used to go to school then accused Sanjay alias Machhi son of Shobh Raj, resident of their locality used to follow her and passed obscene remarks; that on 15. 5. 2018 while she was going in the street then Sanjay alias Machhi intercepted her catching hold of her hand and indulged in teasing her, threatening her that if she disclosed the incident to anyone, then he would kill her. Accused was arrested in this case on 17. 5. 2018. After completion of investigation, he has been challaned and now the case is pending trial. He had filed an application for regular bail in the Court of Sessions, which was declined by learned Additional Sessions Judge, Panipat. The petitioner has indulged in teasing a minor girl of his own locality catching hold of her hand with intent to outrage her modesty and gave beatings to her. The trial against the petitioner is going on. The statement of victim/prosecutrix is yet to be recorded.

[case 333]
This Criminal Appeal has been filed against the Judgment dated 21. 12. 2018 in Spl. S. C. No. 52 of 2016 on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Mahalir Court, Vellore District, Vellore. The case of the prosecution is that on 18. 10. 2015, at 7. 45 p. m. , when the victim girl was going to church, the appellants with a sexual intention, forcibly pulled her and dragged her shawl and by stuffing of cloth in her mouth, took the victim girl into a hidden place and the first appellant removed her clothes and committed sexual assault with the victim girl, the appellants 2 to 4 have abetted for commission of alleged offence. When she raised screaming voice, the old man Panneer, came to the place of occurrence and the accused/appellants left the place. At the time one Manikandan, who came over and took the victim girl (P. W. 4) to her house and handed over to her uncle. Thereafter, on enquiry she revealed the same to her mother and uncle. Thereafter, they preferred a complaint (Ex. P. 5) to the respondent police. The respondent police registered a case in Crime No. 5 of 2015 against the appellants for the offence punishable under Section 341, 376 IPC and Section 4 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 [hereafter 'POCSO Act' for the sake of convenience]. Subsequently, the charges were altered into Section 341, 342 r/w 34 IPC and 17 r/w 4 of POCSO Act. After investigation, the respondent police filed a charge sheet before the learned Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Vellore and the same was taken on file in Spl. S. C. No. 52 of 2016 and charges were framed against the appellants for the offence under Sections 341 r/w 34, 342 r/w 34, 363, 366, 376(2)(i) of IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act.

[case 334]
The father of a girl named C. S. Seenamol @ Seena Sibi (hereinafter referred to as the alleged detenue) is the petitioner herein, seeking a writ of habeas corpus for commanding production of the corpus of the alleged detenue and to set at her liberty from the illegal custody of the 6th respondent. It is stated in the writ petition that, the alleged detenue is a minor girl who had completed only 17 years, her date of birth being 17. 10. 2001. The alleged detenue is missing since 6. 1. 2019. The petitioner had lodged Ext. P2 complaint before the Kumily Police station with respect to the missing of the alleged detenue. The petitioner reliably learnt that the alleged detenue is under illegal custody of the 6th respondent. It is stated that the 6th respondent is a person of bad antecedents and character and that he is involved in various criminal cases, including cases for rape, theft, kidnapping etc. Raising an allegation that the police authorities are not taking any effective steps to trace out the alleged detenue and to get her released from the illegal confinement of the 6th respondent, the above writ petition is filed. Notice issued from this court to the 6th respondent was not served. The learned Government Pleader on instructions from respondents 1 to 5 submitted that a case was registered with respect to missing of the alleged detenue, which was subsequently altered to one punishable under Section 366 A of IPC. It was informed that the investigation of the case is under progress and all efforts are being taken to find out the alleged detenue as well as to arrest the 6th respondent. On that basis, when the case came up for consideration on 25. 1. 2019, it was adjourned to 4. 2. 2019.

[case 335]
Sri. Deepak Aliyas Deepanna S/O. .. vs State Of Karnataka on 24 February, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA, DHARWAD BENCH DATED THIS THE 24TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2025 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE HEMANT CHANDANGOUDAR CRIMINAL PETITION NO. 100902 OF 2025 (482(Cr. PC)/528(BNSS)) BETWEEN: SRI. DEEPAK @ DEEPANNA S/O. LAKSHAMANA @ LAKSHMAPPA MALI, AGE. 25 YEARS, OCC. FARMER, R/O. HUNASHIHAL TANDA-583231, TQ. YELBRUGA, DIST. KOPPAL. .. .PETITIONER (BY SRI. NEELENDRA D. GUNDE, ADVOCATE) AND: 1. STATE OF KARNATAKA BY BEVOOR POLICE STATION, R/BY THE STATE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT BUILDING, DHARWAD-580001. 2. COMPLAINANT R/O. HUNASHIHAL TANDA-583231, TQ. YELBURGA, DIST. KOPPAL. .. .RESPONDENTS. .. The petitioner, who is facing trial for offences punishable under Sections 363 and 376 of the IPC, is before this Court seeking relief. The prosecution alleges that the victim, who was about 18 years old at the time of the incident, went to answer nature's call when the petitioner took her away to a field and forcibly had sexual intercourse with her. .. . Although the offences alleged are cognizable and non-compoundable, in view of the fact that the parties have amicably resolved the issue among themselves--and the survivor has stated that the sexual intercourse was consensual and that she depends on the petitioner to meet their daily needs--it would be futile to subject the petitioner to trial, as the probability of his conviction is remote and bleak in light of the settlement. Therefore, the continuation of criminal proceedings against the petitioner would be an abuse of the process of law. Accordingly, the petition is allowed. The impugned proceedings in SC No. 97/2021 is hereby quashed.

[case 336]
The appellant Manoj Tyagi @ Monu vide the present appeal assails the impugned judgment dated 25. 07. 2018 and the impugned order on sentence dated 27. 07. 2018 of the learned ASJ-01, Judge, Special Court POCSO, KKD, Delhi vide which the appellant in relation to the charges framed against him qua the alleged commission of an offence punishable under Section 10 of the POCSO Act, 2012 with an alternative charge of the commission of the offence punishable under Section 367 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 was held guilty and convicted for the offence punishable under Section 367 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Section 10 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and was sentenced to undergo the minimum Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of five years for the offence punishable under Section10 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and to pay a fine of Rs. 3, 000/- and in case of non-payment of the fine, to further undergo Simple Imprisonment for a period of 15 days in default with the appellant having also been sentenced to undergo minimum Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of five years for the offence punishable under Section 367 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and to pay a fine of Rs. 3, 000/- and in case of non-payment of the fine, to further undergo Simple Imprisonment for a period of 15 days in default with all the sentences having been directed to run concurrently. The DLSA was directed vide the impugned order on sentence dated 27. 07. 2018 to pay compensation to the tune of Rs. 50, 000/- under Rule 7 (2) of the POCSO Rules, 2012 r/w Section 33 (8) of the POCSO through funds maintained under the Victim Compensation Scheme for mental torture and agony suffered by the victim due to the offence committed by the accused.

[case 337]
Anita W/O Nitin Panchal vs The State Of Maharashtra And Another on 15 February, 2021. This is a classic case of litigants abusing the process of law. The appellant filed a complaint against respondent No. 2 on 15. 07. 2013 at the Georai Police Station alleging that, from the year 2010, she was residing with her aunt for education. Her birth date as stated in the complaint as 01. 07. 1996. The son of the aunt, respondent no. 2 herein, was a teacher in Ashram School at Georai. It is alleged that, the accused had forcibly committed sexual intercourse with her and on doing so repeatedly, she became pregnant. On 25. 10. 2013, she delivered a girl child. The testimony of the appellant was recorded on 05. 06. 2018 before the Special Judge at Beed in Special (POCSO) Case No. 5 of 2017. The appellant stated in her testimony that she was having a love affair with the accused and both indulged in sexual intercourse by choice and out of their free will. The accused never abused her and has committed no offence against her. A daughter was delivered, and by consent of both the persons, the accused has married the appellant on 03. 06. 2018. The accused preferred HMP No. 106/2018 on 04. 12. 2018 contending therein that he is not the father of the girl child. The compromise purshis / terms dated 18. 12. 2018 were drafted in Marathi and the appellant is stated to be educated upto the 10th std. The learned Advocate for the appellant submits that, she has already preferred appropriate judicial proceedings for challenging the disposal of the HMP No. 106/2018. In view of the above, we request the learned Special Court at Beed to transmit the R&P in Special (POCSO) Case No. 5/2017 decided on 13. 06. 2018.

[case 338]
Madras High Court Dhanavel vs State By on 4 July, 2015. This criminal appeal is directed against the judgment and order dated 04. 07. 2015 passed in Special S. C. No. 5 of 2015 on the file of the Fast Track Mahila Court, Ariyalur. The victim girl X-P. W. 4 (name not disclosed for the sake of anonymity) was studying in III standard on the date of the incident, viz. , 08. 04. 2015. She hails from Udayarpalayam Village and was living with her maternal grandmother, Susila (P. W. 1), since her father had deserted her mother and her mother was employed in Coimbatore District. X's (P. W. 4's) maternal aunt, Selvi (P. W. 6), was living in the nearby Chozhankurichi Village. On 08. 04. 2015, X (P. W. 4) was returning from school and was waiting in the Udayarpalayam Bus Stop to take a bus to Chozhankurichi as Susila (P. W. 1) had told her to come to Selvi's (P. W. 6's) house. While she was waiting in the bus stop, the appellant came by his TVS-50 (M. O. 2) and offered lift to her. So, she got on to his TVS-50 (M. O. 2). En route, the appellant diverted the motorcycle into a nearby cashew grove, undressed her and sexually abused her. She was seen naked by a group of farm workers hailing from Chozhankurichi who were working in a nearby farm. They enquired her and took her to Chozhankurichi and left her with Susila (P. W. 1) and Selvi (P. W. 6). On a complaint (Ex. P. 1) lodged by Susila (P. W. 1), Kavitha (P. W. 9), Inspector of Police, registered a case in Cr. No. 5 of 2015 under Sections 376(2)(f) IPC and Section 5(m) read with Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (the POCSO Act for short) and prepared the printed F. I. R. (Ex. P. 8), in pursuance whereof, the appellant was arrested.

[case 339]
X vs The State Of West Bengal And Others on 31 August, 2023. The petitioner is a 13-year old girl, represented by the Officer-in-Charge/Person-in-Charge, Snehachhaya Child Care Institution. The petitioner is a minor girl and a student of Class-VI, aged about 13 years. She is a survivor of aggravated penetrative sexual assault and sexual exploitation, allegedly by a person around 34 years old. The petitioners parents are migrant labourers who used to stay at Assam for earning livelihood and visit their native place once or twice a year. The petitioner, thus, had to stay alone at home with her younger sister. Subsequently, symptoms of pregnancy became visible and the petitioner was taken to the Digha State General Hospital on August 12, 2023. Thereafter, pursuant to a complaint lodged by the Superintendent, Digha SG Hospital, a First Information Report (FIR) was registered, inter alia under Section 376(2)(n) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. She was taken into safe custody under the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Purba Medinipur. The petitioner is a victim of rape and aggravated penetrative sexual assault and, as such, the continuance of the pregnancy resulting from such heinous crime constitutes a grave injury to the mental health as well as physical constitution of the victim. Thus, the termination of such pregnancy is immediately necessary to save the life of the pregnant child. Accordingly, the Court directed the respondent to ensure that the petitioner is brought under the care of the Child Welfare Committee and shall undergo medical supervision for termination of pregnancy.

[case 340]
Counsel for Appellant: - R. K. Tripathi, K. D. Mishra, Rahul Kumar Tripathi
Counsel for Respondent: - Govt. Advocate
Courm: Hon'ble Mrs. Ranjana Pandya, J.
Challenge in the appeal is to the Judgment and order passed by Atul Srivastava, learned Additional Sessions Judge, Court No. 8, Mathura on 6. 2. 2015 in Special S. T. No. 13 of 2014, State Vs. Netram Baghel arising out of Case Crime No. 243 of 2013 under Sections 345A, 376, 504, 506 I. P. C. and Section 4 POCSO Act, Police Station Shergarh District Mathura whereby the accused Netram was found guilty under Sections 354A, 376, 504 & 506 and Section 4 Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and was sentenced to one year's rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs. 1, 000/- under Section 354A; seven years rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs. 5, 000/-under Section 376 I. P. C. ; six months rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs. 1000/- under Section 504 I. P. C. ; and one year's rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs. 2, 000/- under Section 506 I. P. C. Further the accused was found guilty and sentenced to seven years rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs. 5000/- under Section 4 POCSO Act with default stipulation. ..
The evidence of the prosecutrix is found suffering from serious infirmities and inconsistencies with other material, prosecutrix making deliberate improvements on material point with a view to rule out consent on her part and there being no injury on her persons even though her version may be otherwise, no reliance can be placed upon her evidence. ..

[case 341]
The prosecution case in short is that the petitioner/accused aged 62 years is a teacher in the Madrassa, where the minor victim girl aged 9 years used to attend religious instruction classes and that on 26. 06. 2019 at about 9a. m. , the petitioner/accused had sexually abused the minor victim girl aged 9 years, while she is in Madrassa by kissing her face and hands and biting on her lips. In the FI Statement, minor victim girl has stated that on the day in question she was alone in the classroom and the petitioner had demanded her that she should come and sit on his lap and she refused and thereupon he had forced her to sit on his lap and kissed on her cheeks saying that she is his daughter and that he had bitten her lips and that he had lifted her churidar top and touched her stomach and tickled her, etc. and that thereby the petitioner had committed the abovesaid offences. Smt. Noorji Noushad, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner has fervently urged that the petitioner is innocent of the allegations and that he happens to be the innocent scapegoat in the factional fight between the two factions of Sunni viz. , AK faction and PK faction and that the petitioner is teaching in a Madrassa which belongs to one of the groups and that the petitioner has been victimized in the instant case, etc. Further the learned counsel for the petitioner would point out that though the incident is allegedly happened on 26. 06. 2019, the First Information Statement and the crime has been lodged only as late as on 06. 07. 2019 and the long and unexplained delay in the lodging of the crime will go to the root of the prosecution case as it affects the very credibility and believability.

[case 342]
R. Vijaya Kumar vs State Represented By on 14 October, 2022. This Criminal Appeal has been filed against the judgment dated 05. 01. 2021 passed in Spl. S. C. No. 39 of 2019 by the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under POCSO Act, Cuddalore. The case of the prosecution is that, at the time of occurrence, the victim girl was studying 11th standard at Punitha Annal Higher Secondary School, Cuddalore. The appellant/A1 who is running a footwear shop at Subbarayalu Nagar had love affair with the victim girl for the past two years. On 07. 03. 2018 at about 4. 00 p. m. , the appellant/A1 took the victim girl to his brother's house and forcefully had intercoursed with her. Subsequently, on 02. 04. 2018, the appellant/A1 abducted the victim girl to Chennai, by a false promise to marry her. Thereafter, on 12. 04. 2018, the mother of the victim girl traced the victim and admitted her in a children's welfare home for her safety. On 16. 04. 2018, when the victim girl suffered stomach pain, she was taken to a Government Hospital and on medical examination, it was found that the victim girl was pregnant with seven weeks old foetus and thereafter, on 20. 04. 2018, the foetus was aborted and the victim girl was admitted in the hospital as an in-patient. On 24. 04. 2018 at about 6. 00 p. m, again the appellant convinced the victim girl to marry her and kidnapped her to Tiruvarur and hence, the mother of the victim girl lodged a complaint against the appellant. The appellant/A1 and the victim resided at Tiruvarur in a rented house till 14. 06. 2018 and during that time, the appellant forcefully had physical relationship with the victim girl on several times.

[case 343]
Aarif Rahin Khan vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 19 February, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH AT GWALIOR BEFORE HON'BLE SHRI JUSTICE G. S. AHLUWALIA ON THE 19th OF FEBRUARY, 2025 MISC. CRIMINAL CASE No. 36457 of 2024 AARIF RAHIN KHAN AND OTHERS Versus THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND OTHERS Appearance: Shri Rajendra Singh Yadav, Advocate for applicants. Shri Naval Kishor Gupta, Public Prosecutor for respondent No. 1/State. Shri Lokendra Sharivastava, Advocate for respondent No. 2. ORDER This application, under Section 482 of Cr. P. C / 528 of BNSS, has been filed for quashment of FIR in Crime No. 797 of 2021 registered at Police Station Janakganj, District Gwalior, for offences punishable under Sections 498A, 323 read with 34 of IPC and Sections 3/4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act. Respondent No. 2 lodged an FIR on the allegation that she got married to applicant No. 1 on 26/11/2017 in accordance with Muslim rites and rituals. Although her father had given sufficient dowry as per his financial ability, but the behavior of the applicants was not cordial on the ground of less dowry. Applicant Nos. 1 and 2, on the instigation of applicant No. 3, started harassing her for bringing an additional amount of 10 lakhs from her father. In the absence of applicant No. 1, applicant No. 3 also started harassing her physically and mentally. On 29/07/2020, all three applicants demanded an amount of 10 lakhs. When she refused to fulfill their demand, she was assaulted and turned out of the matrimonial house. Accordingly, she came back to her parental home along with her two-and-a-half-year-old child and has been residing in her father's house since then.

[case 344]
Aarif Rahin Khan vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 19 February, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH AT GWALIOR BEFORE HON'BLE SHRI JUSTICE G. S. AHLUWALIA ON THE 19th OF FEBRUARY, 2025 MISC. CRIMINAL CASE No. 36457 of 2024 AARIF RAHIN KHAN AND OTHERS Versus THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND OTHERS Appearance: Shri Rajendra Singh Yadav, Advocate for applicants. Shri Naval Kishor Gupta, Public Prosecutor for respondent No. 1/State. Shri Lokendra Sharivastava, Advocate for respondent No. 2. ORDER This application, under Section 482 of Cr. P. C / 528 of BNSS, has been filed for quashment of FIR in Crime No. 797 of 2021 registered at Police Station Janakganj, District Gwalior, for offences punishable under Sections 498A, 323 read with 34 of IPC and Sections 3/4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act. Respondent No. 2 lodged an FIR on the allegation that she got married to applicant No. 1 on 26/11/2017 in accordance with Muslim rites and rituals. Although her father had given sufficient dowry as per his financial ability, but the behavior of the applicants was not cordial on the ground of less dowry. Applicant Nos. 1 and 2, on the instigation of applicant No. 3, started harassing her for bringing an additional amount of 10 lakhs from her father. In the absence of applicant No. 1, applicant No. 3 also started harassing her physically and mentally. On 29/07/2020, all three applicants demanded an amount of 10 lakhs. When she refused to fulfill their demand, she was assaulted and turned out of the matrimonial house. Accordingly, she came back to her parental home along with her two-and-a-half-year-old child and has been residing in her father's house since then.

[case 345]
State vs Moti Lal on 19 May, 2015. In the matter of: SC No. 111/2/2013: FIR No. 395/13: Police Station Chhawla. Under Section 8 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Fresh charge sheet: 12. 12. 2013 received by way of assignment on Reserved for 21. 04. 2015 judgment. The prosecution story in brief is that on 12. 11. 2013 on receipt of DD No. 17A, Constable Surender along with Lady Constable Renu had gone to Hanuman Chowk, D Block, Gali No. 1, Phase-II, Goyla Dairy, Najafgarh where they found many public persons gathered there and complainant/mother of child victim got recorded her statement. The names of child victim and her mother are being withheld to protect their identity u/s 33(7) of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. In her complaint, mother of child victim had stated that she is having two daughters aged 05 years and 03 years. She stated that near her house, construction was going on in one house where labourers and masons were working. She stated that at around 1. 20 p. m. on 12. 11. 2013 when she was bringing her elder daughter back from the school to their house, then she found that one person, who was working as a labourer near her house in the house under construction was sitting outside her house and he was having the child victim aged 03 years in his lap and he had made to hold his penis in the hands of child victim. She stated that she shouted and many public persons gathered there, who caught hold of accused. On the basis of the complaint of the mother of the Child victim, FIR No. 395/13 was registered and the matter was taken up for investigation. Subsequently, the case was tried in court.

[case 346]
Vishal vs State Of U. P. on 22 June, 2021. The present bail application has been filed by the applicant in Case Crime No. 0084 of 2019 under Sections 363, 366, 376 IPC and Section 3/4 of POCSO Act, Police Station - Mehanazpur, District - Azamgarh with the prayer to enlarge the applicant on bail. The First Information Report of this incident was lodged by complainant Bhimraj and it was mentioned in the First Information Report that daughter of the complainant is untraceable since 31. 11. 2019. It was also stated in the report that accused Vishal, Deepak, Susheel and Praveen Kumar Priyadarshi had kidnapped the daughter of the complainant. The contention as raised at the Bar by learned counsel for the applicant is that applicant-accused has been falsely implicated in the present case. It is submitted by the learned counsel that the alleged victim has herself stated in Court that she is about 20 years of age. Further submission is that the alleged victim has married the present accused Vishal and they have got their marriage registered at District Ghaziabad. It is next contended that a female child was born out of their wedlock and at present the alleged victim is mother of a female child. The learned A. G. A. has opposed the prayer for bail. But he has not disputed the fact that their marriage is registered one. Keeping in view the submission of learned counsel for the parties, period of detention of the applicant and all the attending facts and circumstances of the case, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, at this stage, prima facie, a case for bail has been made out. The prayer for bail is granted. The application is allowed.

[case 347]
State Of Karnataka vs Kunduwada Basavaraj on 18 July, 2024 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 18TH DAY OF JULY, 2024. This criminal appeal is filed under Section 378(1) & (3) of Cr. P. C. praying to grant leave to appeal and set aside the judgment and order of acquittal dated 30. 06. 2016 passed by the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Davanagere in S. C. NO. 1/2014 - acquitting the respondent for the offence punishable under Sections 304B read with Section 34 of IPC and Sec. 3 and 4 of D. P. Act. The marriage of accused No. 3 and deceased Kavitha was solemnized on 12. 11. 2010 in Davanagere. At the time of marriage, on the demand of the accused, the parents of Kavitha had given cash of Rs. 3, 00, 000/-, 20 tholas of gold jewelry, one motorcycle and marriage expenses as dowry. The accused lived cordially with the deceased till she gave birth to a female child who was born with physical and mental disability. The accused subjected Kavitha to physical and mental cruelty demanding additional dowry and abusing that she has given birth to a physically and mentally challenged child. The accused were harassing her saying that she should kill the said child or abandon the same somewhere and she should bring money for the treatment of the child. Being unable to withstand such cruelty, on 10. 07. 2013 between 05. 00 p. m and 08. 00 p. m. Kavitha committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused. The narrative illustrates an unsettling reality of dowry-related cruelty and the importance of judicial intervention. A reassessment of the judicial attitudes towards domestic violence is necessary to ensure enhanced legal protections.

[case 348]
By the instant appeal, the appellant Chander Singh challenges the impugned judgment dated 17th December, 2013 whereby he has been convicted for the offence defined under Section 9(k), punishable under Section 10 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2002 (in short the POCSO Act) in FIR No. 80/2013 registered at PS Mangol Puri and the order on sentence dated 18th December, 2013 directing him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six years and fine of `5, 000/- in default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of three months. The prosecution case in brief is that on February 09, 2013 at about 7. 28 PM, PW12 HC Laxman Singh was handed-over DD No. 18, Ex. PW-12/A informing that a boy was kidnapping a girl and the said boy was apprehended by the caller at K Block complex. On reaching the spot, the officer found Chander Singh apprehended by public. Raj Kumar who made the call to the PCR was found to be the maternal uncle of the prosecutrix, who was a minor, deaf and dumb girl aged 12 years. Statement of the mother of the prosecutrix was recorded wherein she stated that at around 7. 00 PM her daughter aged 12 years who was deaf and dumb had gone to throw garbage in the dustbin. She returned back in a perplexed and perturbed condition. When she and her brother asked her, she explained by sign language that near the dustbin one man pressed her mouth, her breast and the lower abdomen. The prosecutrix ran towards her house after freeing herself from his clutches. Chander Singh was apprehended at the spot and both the prosecutrix and Chander Singh were got medically examined.

[case 349]
Challenging the order of acquittal dated 22. 09. 2017 passed by the Sessions Judge (Mahila Fast Track Court), Nagapattinam in S. C. No. 14/2015, the State has filed the present appeal. The respondent stood charged for the offences punishable under Section 6 r/w. 5(l)(m) and (j)(ii) and Section 10 r/w. 9(l)(m) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short POCSO Act) by the trial court in S. C. No. 14/2015. The case of the prosecution as could be discerned from the oral and documentary evidence is as follows: The victim (P. W. 1) is residing with her parents and her siblings at Kandiyur Village, Kutthalam Taluk, Nagapattinam District. She was studying VIII standard in 2013. According to P. W. 1, her parents are daily wagers. The date of birth of the victim is 03. 06. 2001 as per the Transfer Certificate (Ex. P3) issued by the Government Higher Secondary School, Kutthalam. P. W. 1 in her deposition had stated that during 2013, she attained puberty and the respondent, who was her neighbour, used to come down to her house whenever she was alone. He also sexually assaulted her and forced himself upon her. This had continued for more than two years. On 13. 06. 2015, since she had severe stomach pain, her mother (P. W. 2) took her to Government Periyar Hospital, Mayiladuthurai and when she was in the outpatient ward, she delivered a female child. P. W. 2, the mother of the victim questioned her daughter (P. W. 1) who in turn informed her that the respondent used to have sex with her. P. W. 1 did not inform P. W. 2 about the incident, immediately, fearing repercussions. The victim was admitted as an inpatient in Government Hospital, Mayiladuthurai. ..

[case 350]
The petitioner herein, is the mother of the victim in Crime No. 854/2015 of Edakkad Police Station for offences punishable under section 376 IPC read with section 3 & 4 of POCSO Act. The matter is now pending as SC. No. 111/2016 on the files of the Additional District and Sessions Court-I, Thalassery. The allegation is that her child was subjected to sexual abuse, while she was 13 years old. Accused is facing trial. Petitioner sought an early disposal of the case on the ground that the delay is causing great hardship, agony and trauma to the victim. It was stated that the victim was the only crucial witness. The learned Sessions Judge was directed to inform the approximate time limit within which the matter could be taken up, tried and disposed of. The learned Additional District & Sessions Judge-I, Thalassery, by his communication dated 5. 5. 2018, has informed that the total pendency of cases in that court is 1101. 62 cases are more than 5 years old, 22 cases involved under trial prisoners, 54 murder cases and 26 attempt to murder cases. In spite of this substantial pendency of cases which required urgent disposal, the learned Sessions Judge has offered to dispose of the matter within 8 months. Considering the huge pendency of cases, I feel that the learned Sessions Judge was justified in requesting for 8 months. Having considered this, I am inclined to direct the court below to take up SC. No. 111/2016 and dispose it of as expeditiously as possible, at any rate within an outer limit of 8 months from today. The court below shall take into consideration according to the learned counsel for the petitioner the crucial witness is only the victim.

[case 351]
State Of Karnataka vs Kunduwada Basavaraj on 18 July, 2024 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 18TH DAY OF JULY, 2024. This criminal appeal is filed under Section 378(1) & (3) of Cr. P. C. praying to grant leave to appeal and set aside the judgment and order of acquittal dated 30. 06. 2016 passed by the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Davanagere in S. C. NO. 1/2014 - acquitting the respondent for the offence punishable under Sections 304B read with Section 34 of IPC and Sec. 3 and 4 of D. P. Act. The marriage of accused No. 3 and deceased Kavitha was solemnized on 12. 11. 2010 in Davanagere. At the time of marriage, on the demand of the accused, the parents of Kavitha had given cash of Rs. 3, 00, 000/-, 20 tholas of gold jewelry, one motorcycle and marriage expenses as dowry. The accused lived cordially with the deceased till she gave birth to a female child who was born with physical and mental disability. The accused subjected Kavitha to physical and mental cruelty demanding additional dowry and abusing that she has given birth to a physically and mentally challenged child. The accused were harassing her saying that she should kill the said child or abandon the same somewhere and she should bring money for the treatment of the child. Being unable to withstand such cruelty, on 10. 07. 2013 between 05. 00 p. m and 08. 00 p. m. Kavitha committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused. The tragic outcome of this situation emphasizes the need for a more robust legal framework that holds perpetrators of domestic violence accountable and ultimately ensures the safety of individuals within domestic environments.

[case 352]
This Writ Petition has been filed seeking for a Writ of Mandamus, to direct the respondents to expedite the enquiry and investigation on the petitioner's complaint dated 26. 03. 2024 within a time limit as may be fixed by this Court. The case of the petitioner is that, his daughter was kidnapped by his wife assisted by her brother and others with the help of Bagayam Police under the guise of having filed a Writ of Habeas Corpus, however the child was ill-treated and committed child abuse. Thereby, in order to protect the child, the petitioner has sent a complaint dated 26. 03. 2024 to the first respondent, who in turn, transmitted the complaint to the 2nd respondent for the field investigation and consequential report. Since the petitioner's complaint is pending for more than five months, the petitioner filed the above writ petition before this court for appropriate orders. Though very many grounds have been raised in this writ petition, learned counsel for the petitioner submits that, it would suffice, if this Court issues a direction to the respondents to expedite the enquiry and investigation on the petitioner's complaint, dated 26. 03. 2024, within a time frame that may be fixed by this Court. Learned Special Government Pleader appearing for the respondents submitted that, the dispute between the petitioner and his wife is a family dispute and the same has to be ventilated only before the family court. However, without doing so, the petitioner has filed a complaint before the 1st respondent, which is wholly unsustainable. Hence, the prayer sought for by the petitioner cannot be granted and the writ petition is liable to be dismissed.

[case 353]
Avtar Singh vs State Of Haryana And Anr on 9 December, 2016. This petition under Section 482 Cr. P. C. has been filed challenging the order dated 09. 03. 2015 passed by Learned Additional Sessions Judge, Karnal, which allowed an application under Section 311 Cr. P. C. by which witnesses have been recalled. In brief, the facts of the case are that FIR No. 412 dated 02. 11. 2013 under Sections 376(f)(i)(g)(m) IPC and 5(F)(M) and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act), at Police Station Indri was registered against respondent No. 2. In the said FIR, an allegation was made that respondent No. 2, being Principal of a school, had molested two young children aged four and five years. The matter was committed to the Court of Sessions for trial. After framing charges, many prosecution witnesses were examined, including minor children. By an application dated 05. 05. 2013, the respondent filed a request for summoning of the witnesses for further cross-examination, stating that there were certain documents not put to the witnesses. The Additional Sessions Judge allowed the application, stating that the accused has the right to defend and the minor child's cross-examination would be conducted with care. The petitioner argued that this order should be set aside due to ample opportunity already provided. The court upheld the right to recall witnesses under Section 311 Cr. P. C. but also highlighted the sensitivity needed when dealing with child witnesses under the POCSO Act. Ultimately, it dismissed the petition regarding summoning of the minor child, reflecting on the need to protect the interests and welfare of the child.

[case 354]
Niranjan Jaiswal And Another vs State Of U. P. And 2 Others on 10 February, 2025. High Court of Judicature at Allahabad Case - APPLICATION U/S 482 No. - 43621 of 2024. Applicant - Niranjan Jaiswal And Another. Opposite Party - State Of U. P. And 2 Others. Heard Mr. Anil Kumar Mishra, the learned counsel for applicants, the learned A. G. A. for State and Mr. Vijay Prakash Chaturvedi, the learned counsel representing victim. At the outset, the learned A. G. A. submits that notice of application under Section 482 was served upon first informant. However, no counter affidavit has been filed. The applicants, charge sheeted accused, have approached the Court for quashing the proceedings due to subsequent marriage with the prosecutrix, arguing the prosecution cannot be sustained. The prosecutrix has solemnized marriage with applicant on 17. 01. 2024. Parties entered a settlement outside Court and jointly filed an application for terminating the criminal proceedings. However, the A. G. A. opposed this, asserting that the prosecutrix was a child under the POCSO Act at the time of the offence, hence, the criminality stands. The counsel for the victim stated no objection to quashing the proceedings. This Court noted that compromise between parties can lead to quashing proceedings under certain conditions but risks remain with serious offences like those under POCSO. The court weighed public interest against the facts of the case. It concluded that the marriage and the victim's lawyer supports the application suggesting the criminality stands washed off, allowing the application and quashing the proceedings in Special Session Trial No. 74 of 2023.

[case 355]
State Of Karnataka vs Kunduwada Basavaraj on 18 July, 2024 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 18TH DAY OF JULY, 2024. This criminal appeal is filed under Section 378(1) & (3) of Cr. P. C. praying to grant leave to appeal and set aside the judgment and order of acquittal dated 30. 06. 2016 passed by the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Davanagere in S. C. NO. 1/2014 - acquitting the respondent for the offence punishable under Sections 304B read with Section 34 of IPC and Sec. 3 and 4 of D. P. Act. The marriage of accused No. 3 and deceased Kavitha was solemnized on 12. 11. 2010 in Davanagere. At the time of marriage, on the demand of the accused, the parents of Kavitha had given cash of Rs. 3, 00, 000/-, 20 tholas of gold jewelry, one motorcycle and marriage expenses as dowry. The accused lived cordially with the deceased till she gave birth to a female child who was born with physical and mental disability. The accused subjected Kavitha to physical and mental cruelty demanding additional dowry and abusing that she has given birth to a physically and mentally challenged child. The accused were harassing her saying that she should kill the said child or abandon the same somewhere and she should bring money for the treatment of the child. Being unable to withstand such cruelty, on 10. 07. 2013 between 05. 00 p. m and 08. 00 p. m. Kavitha committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused. This case revolves around issues of dowry harassment that led to the tragic suicide of Kavitha, urging the need for stricter enforcement of the laws against domestic abuse and the malicious practice of dowry demands.

[case 356]
State Of Karnataka vs Kunduwada Basavaraj on 18 July, 2024 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 18TH DAY OF JULY, 2024. This criminal appeal is filed under Section 378(1) & (3) of Cr. P. C. praying to grant leave to appeal and set aside the judgment and order of acquittal dated 30. 06. 2016 passed by the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Davanagere in S. C. NO. 1/2014 - acquitting the respondent for the offence punishable under Sections 304B read with Section 34 of IPC and Sec. 3 and 4 of D. P. Act. The marriage of accused No. 3 and deceased Kavitha was solemnized on 12. 11. 2010 in Davanagere. At the time of marriage, on the demand of the accused, the parents of Kavitha had given cash of Rs. 3, 00, 000/-, 20 tholas of gold jewelry, one motorcycle and marriage expenses as dowry. The accused lived cordially with the deceased till she gave birth to a female child who was born with physical and mental disability. The accused subjected Kavitha to physical and mental cruelty demanding additional dowry and abusing that she has given birth to a physically and mentally challenged child. The accused were harassing her saying that she should kill the said child or abandon the same somewhere and she should bring money for the treatment of the child. Being unable to withstand such cruelty, on 10. 07. 2013 between 05. 00 p. m and 08. 00 p. m. Kavitha committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused. The events in this case underscore an urgent call for more thorough and comprehensive approaches to implementing and enforcing dowry laws to ensure protection for individuals in vulnerable domestic situations.

[case 357]
State Of Karnataka, vs Rajesab S/O Mabubsab Hirenaikar, on 13 January, 2020. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA, DHARWAD BENCH. DATED THIS THE 13TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2020. This Criminal Appeal is filed under Section 378(1) & (3) of Cr. P. C. , praying to grant special leave to appeal against the judgment and order of acquittal dated 29. 04. 2015 passed by the learned II Addl. District and Sessions Judge and Special Judge, Dharwad in Special S. C. NO. 2/2014, to set aside the judgment and order of acquittal dated 29. 04. 2015 passed by the learned II Addl. District and Sessions Judge and Special Judge, Dharwad in Special S. C. NO. 2/2014 and to convict the respondent/accused for the offences punishable u/secs. 376(2), 377, 342, 324, 504, 506 of IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012. The case of the prosecution as is evident from Ex. P1 is that the prosecutrix had lodged a complaint on 31. 10. 2013 at 19. 20 hours accusing her father-accused herein of sexual abusing her from the year 2012. Based on the complaint, the Appellant registered a case in Crime No. 108/2013, for the offences punishable under Sections 376(2), 377, 342, 324, 504, 506 of IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012. The statement of the prosecutrix was recorded on 07. 11. 2013. She was subjected to medical examination on 31. 10. 2013, and it was provisionally mentioned that the prosecutrix was 'used to the act like that of sexual intercourse'. The prosecutrix alleged further incidents of rape. However, after a detailed inquiry, the trial court acquitted the accused due to lack of concrete evidence. The State has now challenged this acquittal in the present appeal.

[case 358]
Satyaprakash vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 28 February, 2025. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. The applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 128 of 2024, under Sections 137(2), 87, 64(1) of B. N. S. and Sections 3/4 of POCSO Act, Police Station - Kailadevi, District - Sambhal, during the pendency of trial. The applicant is stated to have enticed away the daughter of the informant aged about 16 years 6 months. The FIR does not whisper a single word about rape rather the allegations of rape have been added subsequently. There is no medical corroboration as the medical report indicates that LMP was started on 28. 08. 2024 and her medical examination was conducted on 02. 09. 2024. The victim, being 16 years and 6 months, indicates her age in a legally sensitive context as per POCSO. The arguments on behalf of the informant suggest that despite the lack of substantial medical evidence, the court must consider the principles of law regarding sexual assaults and the protection of minors, emphasizing the psychological and legal implications of such allegations. The court recognizes the necessity of the testimony of the victim and underlines the potentially traumatic impact of such incidents, leading to the consideration of bail in a sensitive manner. The court eventually grants bail to the applicant pending trial, emphasizing conditions to prevent tampering with evidence and ensuring presence during trial proceedings. The order emphasizes the necessity of respect for law and protection of victims when discussing criminal allegations. The applicant shall not tamper with evidence and must attend court when required.

[case 359]
Suresh vs The Superintendent Of Police on 18 June, 2024. This Habeas Corpus Petition has been filed by the father of the detenu seeking to produce the alleged detenu namely Praveena, D/o. Suresh, aged about 16 years before this Court and hand over the custody to the petitioner. The case of the petitioner is that the alleged detenu has completed 11th standard and on 01. 06. 2024 at evening hours she was found missing. He searched in and around the village and could not find her. Thereafter, he came to know that the third respondent, who also belongs to the same village was also found missing. The petitioner has lodged a complaint before the second respondent police on 01. 06. 2024 and the case also registered in Cr. No. 59/2024 under 'girl missing'. During the course of investigation, it came to light that the third respondent had kidnapped the detenu and they were traced near Anaikatti, Coimbatore District and the girl was produced before the Child Welfare Committee. It further came to light that the girl was sexually abused by the third respondent and therefore, the sections were altered into 5(l), 6 of POCSO Act r/w 9 of Child Marriage Act. Today, the respondent police has produced the detenu and the third respondent before this Court. The detenu expressed her willingness to go along her parents and based on her willingness, she is handed over to her parents. The parents agree to take their daughter along with them and also undertook to co-operate with the respondent for the investigation. Accordingly, this habeas corpus petition is closed. The second respondent is directed to proceed in accordance with law.

[case 360]
State Of Karnataka vs Kunduwada Basavaraj on 18 July, 2024 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 18TH DAY OF JULY, 2024. This criminal appeal is filed under Section 378(1) & (3) of Cr. P. C. praying to grant leave to appeal and set aside the judgment and order of acquittal dated 30. 06. 2016 passed by the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Davanagere in S. C. NO. 1/2014 - acquitting the respondent for the offence punishable under Sections 304B read with Section 34 of IPC and Sec. 3 and 4 of D. P. Act. The marriage of accused No. 3 and deceased Kavitha was solemnized on 12. 11. 2010 in Davanagere. At the time of marriage, on the demand of the accused, the parents of Kavitha had given cash of Rs. 3, 00, 000/-, 20 tholas of gold jewelry, one motorcycle and marriage expenses as dowry. The accused lived cordially with the deceased till she gave birth to a female child who was born with physical and mental disability. The accused subjected Kavitha to physical and mental cruelty demanding additional dowry and abusing that she has given birth to a physically and mentally challenged child. The accused were harassing her saying that she should kill the said child or abandon the same somewhere and she should bring money for the treatment of the child. Being unable to withstand such cruelty, on 10. 07. 2013 between 05. 00 p. m and 08. 00 p. m. Kavitha committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused. This case exemplifies the societal pressures surrounding dowry and the severe effects of domestic violence, highlighting the urgent need for protective legal measures for vulnerable individuals.

[case 361]
Sri Ananda Poojari vs State By Chamarajpet Police on 12 July, 2018. This criminal appeal is filed under Section 374(2) of Cr. P. C praying to set aside the judgment/order of conviction and sentence dated: 31. 05. 2016 passed by the LIII Addl. City Civil and Sessions Judge at Bengaluru City in Spl. Case No. 188/2015 - Convicting the appellant/accused for the offence punishable under Section 9(L)(M)R/w Sec. 10 of POCSO Act, 2012. The appellant/accused is sentenced to undergo R. I. for 5 years and pay fine of Rs. 50, 000/- in default of pay fine, he shall undergo R. I. for one fourth of the period prescribed for the substantive sentence. This appeal is against the judgment which convicted the accused under Section 9(L)(M) r/w Section 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012 and sentencing him to five years of imprisonment. The victim in this case, Disha, was alone at home when the accused entered with a pretext and committed the sexual abuse. The victim screamed and the parents then filed a complaint leading to the arrest of the accused. The trial court held that the prosecution established the guilt against the accused based on the victim's testimony and the complaint made. However, the appeal argues against the conviction alleging that the evidence was not cogent or consistent. The Court found that while the trial had deficiencies concerning evidentiary support and reliance on family testimonies, the accused, having suffered judicial custody for over two years, had his sentence reduced, though the conviction under POCSO was modified due to inconsistencies in evidence conveyed by witnesses.

[case 362]
S. Thangam vs The District Collector Cum Appellate. .. on 27 January, 2025
BEFORE THE MADURAI BENCH OF MADRAS HIGH COURT
S. Thangam vs The District Collector Cum Appellate. .. on 27 January, 2025
W. P. (MD)No. 28446 of 2024
PRAYER: Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Certiorarified Mandamus, calling for the records pertaining to the impugned order of the second respondent in Moo. Mu. A5/320/2024 dated 30. 04. 2024 and consequential impugned order of the first respondent in Na. Ka. No. C3/2035597/2024 dated 03. 09. 2024 and quash the both as unconstitutional and illegal and consequently direct the 2nd respondent to pass orders ensuring the right of the petitioner to lead a peaceful normal life guaranteed under Sec 4 (2) of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, as prayed by the petitioner via her application dated 08. 01. 2024. The petitioner is a differently abled senior citizen aged 63 years, who served in the Judicial Ministerial Service and retired on attaining her age of superannuation. Her husband served as a Conductor and had retired. Both of them together draw a pension. Their son, the third respondent, has a history of alcoholism and has created a situation of emotional abuse and conflict, leading the petitioner to file an application under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. The court quashed the previous orders and directed the second respondent to evict the third respondent and his family, thereby reinforcing the rights of the petitioner to live peacefully in her own property.

[case 363]
On 13th December, 2012, S', a 7-year-old male child, was admitted in the Ashiyana Boys' Home, Alipur. He remained there till 11th January, 2013. During his sojourn at the Ashiyana Boys' Home, S' was, as the evidence has revealed and as is undisputed, sodomised. On 11th January, 2013, S' was shifted, by Dr. R. P. Singh, under whose care he was, at the time, to the B. R. Ambedkar Hospital (hereinafter referred to as the Hospital), where he was detected to be HIV positive. In view thereof, S' was referred, on 15th January, 2013, to Child Survival India (CSI), an NGO dealing with HIV positive patients. While he was under the care of the CSI, S', apparently, disclosed the fact of him having been sodomised during his tenure in the Ashiyana Boys' Home. This resulted in the following communication, from the CSI to the Child Welfare Committee, on 4th February, 2013 (Ex. PW-7/A): 'Child Survival India. .. has alleged that he was sexually abused and harassed by the children of Ashiyana Boy's Home. The SHO of PS Shabaad Dairy is directed to get the said child medically examined at the BSA Hospital to cooperate with his statement given to the above said NGO. ' The CWC, thereupon, addressed a communication (titled an Order), dated 13th February, 2013, to the Station House Officer (SHO), PS Shahbad Dairy. As the facts stated in the communication from the CWC prima facie indicated the commission of an offence, under Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, an FIR was registered and investigation was initiated.

[case 364]
State Of Karnataka vs Kunduwada Basavaraj on 18 July, 2024 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 18TH DAY OF JULY, 2024. This criminal appeal is filed under Section 378(1) & (3) of Cr. P. C. praying to grant leave to appeal and set aside the judgment and order of acquittal dated 30. 06. 2016 passed by the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Davanagere in S. C. NO. 1/2014 - acquitting the respondent for the offence punishable under Sections 304B read with Section 34 of IPC and Sec. 3 and 4 of D. P. Act. The marriage of accused No. 3 and deceased Kavitha was solemnized on 12. 11. 2010 in Davanagere. At the time of marriage, on the demand of the accused, the parents of Kavitha had given cash of Rs. 3, 00, 000/-, 20 tholas of gold jewelry, one motorcycle and marriage expenses as dowry. The accused lived cordially with the deceased till she gave birth to a female child who was born with physical and mental disability. The accused subjected Kavitha to physical and mental cruelty demanding additional dowry and abusing that she has given birth to a physically and mentally challenged child. The accused were harassing her saying that she should kill the said child or abandon the same somewhere and she should bring money for the treatment of the child. Being unable to withstand such cruelty, on 10. 07. 2013 between 05. 00 p. m and 08. 00 p. m. Kavitha committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused. This case serves as a stark reminder of the existing societal issues surrounding dowry and domestic violence, and the need for comprehensive legal frameworks to tackle these problems.

[case 365]
Baiju S vs State Of Kerala on 11 November, 2020. These Bail Applications filed under Section 438 of Criminal Procedure Code were heard through Video Conference. The above case is registered against the petitioners alleging offences punishable under Sections 354 IPC and Sections 7, 8, 12, 11(1) and 21 of the POCSO Act. The prosecution case in nutshell is like this: The petitioner in B. A. No. 7011/2020 is the husband of the defacto complainant. The marriage between the petitioner in that bail application and the defacto complainant was on 28. 12. 2007. In this wedlock there was a daughter and now the daughter is aged 12 years. The defacto complainant is also having another child born in the wedlock with her first husband. There was some dispute between the petitioner and the defacto complainant which resulted in filing O. P(MHA) No. 1204/2018 before the Family Court, Kollam. The above case was filed on 27. 10. 2018. In that case, the petitioner in B. A. No. 6560/2020 is arrayed as the adultrator of the defacto complainant. That divorce petition is even now pending. The present FIR is registered on 26. 9. 2020, alleging that the petitioner in B. A. No. 6560/2020, who is alleged as adultrator of the defacto complainant committed sexual assault on the child. The alleged incident, according to the FIR, happened on 16. 3. 2019. The FIR was registered on 26. 9. 2020. According to the prosecution, the child was given custody to the father on that day morning and when the child was in the house of the father, the petitioner in B. A No. 6560/2020 sexually abused the child. This is the sum and substance of the allegation.

[case 366]
Present appeal is directed against a judgment dated 24. 11. 2014 of learned Addl. Sessions Judge in Sessions Case No. 119/2013 emanating from FIR No. 266/2013 PS Vasant Kunj (South) by which the appellant - Brij Lal was held guilty for committing offence under Section 6 POCSO Act. By an order dated 05. 12. 2014, he was awarded RI for ten years with fine `10, 000/-. Briefly stated, the prosecution case as projected in the charge-sheet was that on 26. 06. 2013 at around 11. 00 a. m. the appellant sexually assaulted the victim 'X' (assumed name) aged around four and a half years at his house. The incident was conveyed to the police and Daily Diary (DD) No. 60A (Ex. PW-1/A) came to be recorded on 29. 06. 2013 at 11. 40 p. m. The investigation was assigned to W/SI Brahmo Devi who went to the spot. After recording the statement of victim's mother (Ex. PW-5/A), she lodged First Information Report. 'X' was medically examined; she recorded her 164 Cr. P. C. statement. Exhibits collected during investigation were sent to Forensic Science Laboratory for examination. Statements of the witnesses conversant with the facts were recorded. The accused was arrested and medically examined. Upon completion of investigation, a charge-sheet was filed against the appellant. To bring home the appellant's guilt, the prosecution examined twelve witnesses in all and relied upon various documents. In 313 Cr. P. C. statement, the appellant denied his involvement in the crime and pleaded false implication. The trial resulted in conviction as mentioned previously. Being aggrieved and dissatisfied, the appellant has preferred the appeal.

[case 367]
Vivek Tiwari vs The State Of Bihar on 8 February, 2024. .. Chandra Shekhar Jha. .. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL APPEAL (SJ) No. 3293 of 2023 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -16 Year-2019 Thana- NATWAR District- Rohtas ====================================================== Vivek Tiwari, son of Dhanjee Tiwari, resident of Gopalpur, P. S. - Kargahar, District- Rohtas. .. . Appellant Versus The State of Bihar. .. Respondent ====================================================== Appearance: For the Appellant/s: Mr. Ajay Kumar Thakur, Advocate Mr. Rajeev Ranjan, Advocate Mr. Prince Kumar Mishra, Advocate Ms. Vaishnavi Singh, Advocate For the State: Mr. Anand Mohan Prasad Mehta, APP For the Informant: Mr. Ravi Shankar Sahay, Advocate Mr. Rakesh Kumar Mishra, Advocate ====================================================== CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE CHANDRA SHEKHAR JHA ORAL JUDGMENT Date: 08-02-2024. .. Subsequently, a threat was advanced by appellant/convict to make it viral and on the basis of said threat, informant was blackmailed on several occasions to establish physical relations with her. .. . The appellant/convict further shows his complete innocence. On the basis of evidence as surfaced during the course of trial, learned trial court convicted the appellant/convict under Section 376/506 of the I. P. C. and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, where he was sentenced for the offence under Section 4 of the POCSO Act for the period of 10 years rigorous imprisonment along with fine of Rs. 10, 000/- but no separate sentence was passed for the offence under Sections 376 & 506 of the I. P. C.

[case 368]
BEFORE THE MADURAI BENCH OF MADRAS HIGH COURT Dated: 12. 06. 2018 CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE C. T. SELVAM AND THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE A. M. BASHEER AHAMED R. T. (MD) No. 2 of 2017 Mari. .. Accused Vs. State of Tamil Nadu, In the case of Cr. No. 71 of 2013, Rameswaram Temple Police Station, Ramanathapuram District. Through State Public Prosecutor. .. Reference under Section 366 of the Code of Criminal Procedure seeking confirmation of the death sentence imposed on the accused on 03. 11. 2017 in Special S. C. No. 2 of 2017 by the Fast Track Mahila Court, Ramanathapuram. .. . The prosecution case is that appellant, his wife and their children resided at Rameswaram. One month prior to the occurrence, there was a quarrel between the accused and his wife P. W. 2 - Dhanusura Banu. Owing thereto, P. W. 2 left along with her younger son Vasanth and younger daughter deceased Mahathi to P. W. 3 - Sutha's house at Nalupanai. .. . On 22. 04. 2013 when P. W. 2 went to Dharapuram, she took her younger son Vasanth and deceased Mahathi from Nalupani to Karayur. On the evening of 23. 04. 2013 the accused came drunk and took the deceased under pretext of getting her snacks. He asked money from his brother P. W. 12 Murugan, who gave Rs. 50/- to the deceased and asked both the accused and deceased to go home. Thereafter, the accused sexually assaulted the deceased. The deceased became unconscious and with intention to hide his act, accused threw the child into the sea and caused her death. .. . The accused was arrested and eventually sentenced to death. This court is now hearing the appeal regarding the confirmation of this sentence.

[case 369]
Niranjan Jaiswal And Another vs State Of U. P. And 2 Others on 10 February, 2025. High Court of Judicature at Allahabad Case - APPLICATION U/S 482 No. - 43621 of 2024. Applicant - Niranjan Jaiswal And Another. Opposite Party - State Of U. P. And 2 Others. Heard Mr. Anil Kumar Mishra, the learned counsel for applicants, the learned A. G. A. for State and Mr. Vijay Prakash Chaturvedi, the learned counsel representing victim. At the outset, the learned A. G. A. submits that notice of application under Section 482 was served upon first informant. However, no counter affidavit has been filed. The applicants, charge sheeted accused, have approached the Court for quashing the proceedings due to subsequent marriage with the prosecutrix, arguing the prosecution cannot be sustained. The prosecutrix has solemnized marriage with applicant on 17. 01. 2024. Parties entered a settlement outside Court and jointly filed an application for terminating the criminal proceedings. However, the A. G. A. opposed this, asserting that the prosecutrix was a child under the POCSO Act at the time of the offence, hence, the criminality stands. The counsel for the victim stated no objection to quashing the proceedings. This Court noted that compromise between parties can lead to quashing proceedings under certain conditions but risks remain with serious offences like those under POCSO. The court weighed public interest against the facts of the case. It concluded that the marriage and the victim's lawyer supports the application suggesting the criminality stands washed off, allowing the application and quashing the proceedings.

[case 370]
Xxx vs State Of Kerala on 15 January, 2021 The 1st petitioner is a minor boy. The 2nd petitioner is his mother. They have approached this court seeking a direction to the 3rd respondent to take appropriate action on Ext. P3 complaint lodged by the 2nd petitioner against the 6th respondent herein and also for a further direction to the 3rd respondent to entrust the investigation in Crime No. 466 of 2019 of the Munnar police station by any of the officer other than the 5th respondent. They have also sought for a direction to the 5th respondent not to harass the petitioners in connection with the investigation in Crime No. 466 of 2019 of Munnar police station registered at the instance of the 1st petitioner against the 6th respondent. The records reveal that on 28. 12. 2019, a complaint was lodged by the 1st petitioner, a minor boy alleging that he was subjected to sexual abuse and assault, after intimidating him, by the 6th respondent herein, a girl aged 19 years, while she was residing with the petitioners at their residence at Lakshmi Estate, Nagarmudi Division, KDH village, Munnar. It is alleged that the 6th respondent is a relative of the petitioners and due to some dispute with her family members, she left them and sought refuge in the house of the petitioners. She was accordingly permitted to live there. Though the alleged incident took place in the month of July and August, 2018, the police were alerted only in the month of December and crime was registered inter alia under Sections 9 and 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and under Section 506 of the IPC.

[case 371]
This criminal revision is directed against a judgment and order of the Exclusive Judge, POCSO Act, Fatehpur dated 01. 12. 2020, made in Criminal Appeal No. 25 of 2020, affirming an order of the Juvenile Justice Board, Fatehpur dated 30. 09. 2020, declining bail to the revisionist pending trial. The prosecution case, shortly put, is that on 25. 04. 2020, at about 03: 32 in the afternoon, a Non-Cognizable Report bearing number 57 of 2020, was got lodged by the informant/opposite party no. 2, Dharmendra Kumar, with Police Station - Hussainganj, District - Fatehpur, under Sections 323 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code, 186 with allegations that 2 O' Clock earlier in the day, Pradeep son of Rakesh, Pappu son of Naresh, Manish son of Santosh (the revisionist) and Santosh son of Rahimal, intruded into his house over the issue of not permitting a drain to be cleaned. They beat up the informant, delivering blows, besides employing sticks (danda). The informant's uncle, Suresh, who attempted to rescue him, was also battered and abused. The informant's uncle, Suresh, who was taken to the Fatehpur Sadar Hospital for attending to his injuries, had died. The FIR requested necessary action. It appears that the case was then converted to a regular crime, bearing Case Crime No. 78 of 2020, under Sections 323, 504, 304/34 IPC, Police Station - Hussainganj, District - Fatehpur. The revisionist, being one of the assailants nominated, is in jail. He applied to the Board, seeking to be declared a child in conflict with law, under the provision of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015.

[case 372]
Ravi Shankar vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 7 March, 2025. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 42208 of 2024. Applicant: - Ravi Shankar. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. And 3 Others. Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J. 1. None is present on behalf of the informant even in the revised call. 2. On telephonic conversation with the Investigating Officer, learned AGA has informed that the informant is out of station and the I. O. had telephonically informed him about the instant case on 15. 11. 2024, as such, service of notice is deemed sufficient. 3. Heard Sri Phool Singh Yadav, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Sunil Kumar, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material placed on record. 4. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 171 of 2022, under Sections 376(3), 328, 506 of I. P. C. and Sections 5j(ii), (5n)/6 of POCSO Act, during the pendency of trial. 5. The FIR is delayed by about six months and there is no explanation of the said delay caused. 6. The DNA report filed indicates that the applicant is not the biological father. 7. The applicant is said to have no criminal history and has been in jail since 02. 09. 2022. 8. The A. G. A. argues that the victim's condition at the time of reporting was also an issue. 9. This Court determined that certain witnesses were already examined, thus reducing the risk of evidence tampering. 10. Bail was granted to the applicant under strict conditions. 11. If conditions are breached, it can lead to bail cancellation. 12. Observations made shall not affect the trial Judge's independent opinion.

[case 373]
State Of Karnataka vs Kunduwada Basavaraj on 18 July, 2024 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 18TH DAY OF JULY, 2024. This criminal appeal is filed under Section 378(1) & (3) of Cr. P. C. praying to grant leave to appeal and set aside the judgment and order of acquittal dated 30. 06. 2016 passed by the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Davanagere in S. C. NO. 1/2014 - acquitting the respondent for the offence punishable under Sections 304B read with Section 34 of IPC and Sec. 3 and 4 of D. P. Act. The marriage of accused No. 3 and deceased Kavitha was solemnized on 12. 11. 2010 in Davanagere. At the time of marriage, on the demand of the accused, the parents of Kavitha had given cash of Rs. 3, 00, 000/-, 20 tholas of gold jewelry, one motorcycle and marriage expenses as dowry. The accused lived cordially with the deceased till she gave birth to a female child who was born with physical and mental disability. The accused subjected Kavitha to physical and mental cruelty demanding additional dowry and abusing that she has given birth to a physically and mentally challenged child. The accused were harassing her saying that she should kill the said child or abandon the same somewhere and she should bring money for the treatment of the child. Being unable to withstand such cruelty, on 10. 07. 2013 between 05. 00 p. m and 08. 00 p. m. Kavitha committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused. This case reinforces the fact that addressing the underlying societal attitudes toward dowry demands is critical to preventing future cases of violence against women.

[case 374]
State Of Karnataka vs Kunduwada Basavaraj on 18 July, 2024 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 18TH DAY OF JULY, 2024. This criminal appeal is filed under Section 378(1) & (3) of Cr. P. C. praying to grant leave to appeal and set aside the judgment and order of acquittal dated 30. 06. 2016 passed by the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Davanagere in S. C. NO. 1/2014 - acquitting the respondent for the offence punishable under Sections 304B read with Section 34 of IPC and Sec. 3 and 4 of D. P. Act. The marriage of accused No. 3 and deceased Kavitha was solemnized on 12. 11. 2010 in Davanagere. At the time of marriage, on the demand of the accused, the parents of Kavitha had given cash of Rs. 3, 00, 000/-, 20 tholas of gold jewelry, one motorcycle and marriage expenses as dowry. The accused lived cordially with the deceased till she gave birth to a female child who was born with physical and mental disability. The accused subjected Kavitha to physical and mental cruelty demanding additional dowry and abusing that she has given birth to a physically and mentally challenged child. The accused were harassing her saying that she should kill the said child or abandon the same somewhere and she should bring money for the treatment of the child. Being unable to withstand such cruelty, on 10. 07. 2013 between 05. 00 p. m and 08. 00 p. m. Kavitha committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused. This case highlights the wider social implications of dowry harassment and the urgent requirement for a collective effort to eliminate systemic violence.

[case 375]
Deepak (A) Deepak Kumar vs The State Of Tamil Nadu on 7 June, 2022. This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to call for the records in connection with the FIR registered in Crime No. 2 of 2022 on the file of the Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Tambaram and to quash the same. The case of the prosecution is that the defacto complainant who is aged about 17 years fell in love with the accused and had sexual intercourse which resulted in registration of FIR. Heard both sides. Today both the defacto complainant and accused along with their parents are present before this Court. The defacto complainant is about to complete the age of 18 in another six months when the alleged offence reported. She submitted that she is no longer interested in prosecuting the accused, since she voluntarily fell in love with the boy/accused. Though said consent of the minor is not permissible under law, the very object of the POCSO Act is to prevent the sexual offence on the minor children. When the girl and the boy were mature enough to take rational decision in their life and involve in certain activities due to infactuation whether such act could be questionable. In a similar nature of case this Court in Crl. O. P. No. 232 of 201 in the case of Vijayalakshmi and another Vs. The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Erode and another has held as follows: When this case was taken up for hearing, this Court became concerned about the growing incidence of offences under the POCSO Act on one side and also the Rigorous Imprisonment envisaged in the Act.

[case 376]
State Of Karnataka vs Kunduwada Basavaraj on 18 July, 2024 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 18TH DAY OF JULY, 2024. This criminal appeal is filed under Section 378(1) & (3) of Cr. P. C. praying to grant leave to appeal and set aside the judgment and order of acquittal dated 30. 06. 2016 passed by the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Davanagere in S. C. NO. 1/2014 - acquitting the respondent for the offence punishable under Sections 304B read with Section 34 of IPC and Sec. 3 and 4 of D. P. Act. The marriage of accused No. 3 and deceased Kavitha was solemnized on 12. 11. 2010 in Davanagere. At the time of marriage, on the demand of the accused, the parents of Kavitha had given cash of Rs. 3, 00, 000/-, 20 tholas of gold jewelry, one motorcycle and marriage expenses as dowry. The accused lived cordially with the deceased till she gave birth to a female child who was born with physical and mental disability. The accused subjected Kavitha to physical and mental cruelty demanding additional dowry and abusing that she has given birth to a physically and mentally challenged child. The accused were harassing her saying that she should kill the said child or abandon the same somewhere and she should bring money for the treatment of the child. Being unable to withstand such cruelty, on 10. 07. 2013 between 05. 00 p. m and 08. 00 p. m. Kavitha committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused. The judicial systems handling of dowry cases necessitates a review to ensure accountability for domestic violence and support for victims.

[case 377]
Sri X vs The State Of West Bengal And Others on 17 August, 2023
The present writ petition has been filed by the father of an unfortunate minor girl of 11 years who is studying in Class V. The minor was a victim of a gang rape, which invited proceedings under Section 376DB of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under Section 6(1) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The minor, as of today, is pregnant for about 25 weeks and 6 days. The father of the minor, on her behalf, seeks medical termination of the unwanted and unwarranted pregnancy, in view of the trauma which would be suffered by the minor in the circumstances, if the birth of the child goes through. The learned Senior Advocate appearing for the petitioner cites Sections 3 and 5 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 as well as the connected Rules of 2003. It is contended that although under Section 3(2)(b), the outer length of pregnancy which can be medically terminated under the Act is 24 weeks. The Act has to be taken as a whole. Explanation 2 of Section 3(2) provides that for the purposes of Clauses (a) and (b), where any pregnancy is alleged to have been caused by rape, the anguish caused by the pregnancy shall be presumed to constitute a grave injury to the mental health of the pregnant woman. Such circumstances raise critical legal discussions regarding the rights and remedies available to the minor victim, especially focusing on her right to terminate the pregnancy due to severe mental and physical harms expected from carrying it to term.

[case 378]
X Minor vs State Of U. P. And Another on 15 March, 2023. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his grandfather under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 against the judgment dated 22. 10. 2021 passed by Additional Sessions Judge/ Special Judge (POCSO) Act, Siddharth Nagar in Criminal Appeal No. 27 of 2021, whereby the appellate court has rejected the Criminal appeal. The Juvenile Justice Board has rejected the bail application of the revisionist, which has been filed by his natural guardian/grandfather, under Section 12 of 'JJ Act, 2015' in Case Crime No. 118 of 2021, under Sections 354, 363, 366, 376 (3) of the Indian Penal Code and under Section 7/8 and  POCSO Act, P. S. Uska Bazar, District Siddharth Nagar. The revisionist was 13 years, 11 months and 20 days old at the time of the incident. The Juvenile Justice Board declared the revisionist as juvenile. Learned counsel for the revisionist submits that the revisionist is innocent and has been falsely implicated. The bail application under Section 12 of 'JJ Act, 2015' has been rejected by the Juvenile Justice Board. The appellate court has affirmed the order without considering the social information report of the Probation Officer in its right perspective. The findings recorded by the court below are against the social information report and are based on surmises. It is a settled position of law that the use of the word 'shall' in sub-section (1) of Section 12 of 'JJ Act, 2015' is of great significance.

[case 379]
X vs State Of Nct Of Delhi (Acting Through Its. .. on 20 October, 2022. The present case raises important questions regarding the child survivors of sexual abuse. Child sexual abuse (hereinafter called "CSA") has been interpreted by the World Health Organisation (hereinafter called "WHO") as the involvement of a child in sexual activity that he or she does not fully comprehend, is unable to give informed consent to, or for which the child is not developmentally prepared and cannot give consent. The impact of the sexual offence is rightly pointed out in Bodhisattwa Gautam v. Subhra Chakraborty, wherein the Supreme Court reiterated that rape is not only a crime against the person of a woman (victim), it is a crime against the entire society. Owing to various emotional, social, and cultural factors, CSA survivors may not be able to express their feelings and experiences. The Law Commissions 154th Report on reforms in criminal procedure discussed concerns related to victimology. The criminal claims the survivors life, if not physically then affecting their mental and emotional state. Therefore, the courts must consider the gravity of the violation and the circumstances of each case, including the severe mental trauma experienced. The passage also specifies that the compensation awarded is to be based on several factors including immediate rehabilitation needs, severity of abuse, and loss of educational opportunities. This judgment is essential for lifting the veil on the severely undercompensated nature of child sexual abuse cases.

[case 380]
M. Sivakumar vs State Rep. By on 18 July, 2022. The Criminal Original Petition is filed under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. , to call for the records and quash the F. I. R registered for the offence under Section 376, 417 and 506(ii) I. P. C against the petitioner in Crime No. 6 of 2021 on the file of the Inspector of Police, W-10, All Women Police Station, Flower Bazaar, Chennai. The allegation in the F. I. R indicates that both the petitioner and the defacto complainant / 2nd respondent had love affair and thereafter the accused appeared to have refused to marry the defacto complainant, thereby F. I. R. came to be registered for the offence under Section 376, 417 and 506(ii) I. P. C. Now, the petitioner and the defacto complainant appeared before this Court and they were identified by the respective counsel and the investigation officer. Both of them submitted that they are married on 04. 02. 2022 and living happily together now. They have also filed a marriage registration certificate. Though the offence under Section 376 and 417 I. P. C are not compoundable, on a perusal of the F. I. R. , it indicates that the parties had consensual relationship and no intention or deception could be notified to hold that there is no valid consent for intercourse. Further, both of them are married now and F. I. R came to be filed due to stained relationship before marriage. If the F. I. R taken into consideration for entirety, the same would not attract offence under Section 376 I. P. C as there is no ingredients to show that the consent was obtained by misconception of fact.

[case 381]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the proceedings in Spl. C. C. No. 210 of 2023 on the file of Special Court Tirunelveli. The case of the prosecution is that the petitioner had married the third respondent/victim, when she was 17 years old and the petitioner also had sexual intercourse with her. It came to the knowledge of the second respondent/defacto complainant and she lodged a complaint. Hence, the case has been registered as against the petitioners. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner, learned Counsel appearing for the respondents No. 1 & 2 and the learned Counsel appearing for the third respondent submitted that now, the petitioner and the second respondent/defacto complainant have settled the dispute between themselves amicably and the second respondent/defacto complainant is not willing to proceed further with the criminal case. The third respondent/victim had stated that both the petitioner and the third respondent/victim got married on 07. 06. 2021 and a male child was born to them on 22. 03. 2022. They are living happily in a separate house and she did not want to pursue with the case. The case has been registered for offences under Sections 9 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, and POCSO Act. However, the third respondent/victim confirmed that she is not inclined to prosecute this case further, since she married the petitioner. The Court ultimately decided to quash the criminal proceedings, agreeing with the terms of the joint compromise memo and the affidavit filed by the victim.

[case 382]
This Criminal Appeal has been filed by the Appellants/accused as against the order passed by the learned Special Judge (Under POCSO Act) at Puducherry in Crl. M. P. No. 2662 of 2021 in Spl. S. C. No. 07 of 2021, dated 01. 12. 2021. The brief facts of the case is that the accused persons along with other accused committed the offence of unlawful procurement of child and wrongful restraint and also committed the offence of aggravated penetrative sexual assault, cruelty to child and providing an intoxicated substances against the victim child and therefore, the respondent Police registered the case against the accused herein in Crime No. 187 of 2020 for the offence under Section 6, 10 of Pocso (Amendment) Act, 2019, Section 17 of Pocso Act, 2012 & Section 3(1)(w)(i) of SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015, Section 3(2)(v) of the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, Section 14(1) of the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986, Section 372, 373, 374, 376AB IPC along with Sections 75, 77, 81 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and Section 376(3), 341, 342 of IPC and to delete the Sections of law 3(1)(l)(iv)(xii) of the SC and St (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989. After investigation, the charge sheet was laid before the Special Court and during the pendency of the investigation, the appellants filed bail application before the Sessions Court and the learned Sessions Court dismissed the bail application. Challenging the same, the appellants have filed the present Appeal.

[case 383]
In brief, the case of the prosecution is that on 01. 02. 2015 at about 9. 00 AM a DD No. 8A P. S. Jafar Pur Kalan, New Delhi was received and IO/SI Manju went to the place of incident i. e. Bus Stand, Gao Daurala, New Delhi. The complainant/child victim (identity of child victim withheld) was found there whose statement/complaint was recorded wherein she stated that she was 16 years old and studied in 11th class in a government school at Rawta Village, New Delhi. A boy namely Mukesh s/o late Sh. Ram Singh also studied in 12 th class in the same school and he was following the child victim for about 4-5 months. There was a bus stand near her village, where an old broken house was situated and the child victim used to go to said old broken house to relieve. About 3-4 months ago the accused had taken her after influencing her to the said old house and took her photos and also made video of wrong act in his mobile. The accused used to say to the child victim that he wanted to marry her but when she denied the accused threatened to defame her and also to kill her parents. The accused also forcibly raped the child victim 4-5 times in the last 3-4 months in the said old broken house after inhaling her some intoxicating substance. Further the accused raped the child victim on 27. 12. 2014 and 31. 01. 2015. On 31. 01. 2015, the accused beat the child victim due to which she got injured and the accused also forcibly raped her after inhaling her some intoxicating substance. On the statement of the child victim, the present case was registered.

[case 384]
Laljibhai S/O. Babubhai Ramjibhai. .. vs State Of Gujarat & on 30 March, 2016
IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION (FOR QUASHING & SET ASIDE FIR/ORDER) NO. 3433 of 2016
LALJIBHAI S/O. BABUBHAI RAMJIBHAI BABARIYA KODI. .. .Applicant(s)
STATE OF GUJARAT & 1. .. .Respondent(s)
MR PAWAN A BAROT, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
MR. RAJESH B CHAVDA, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
DS AFF. NOT FILED (N) for the Respondent(s) No. 2
Mr. J. K. Shah, APP for the Respondent(s) No. 1
CORAM: HONOURABLE MS JUSTICE SONIA GOKANI
Date: 30/03/2016
Rule returnable today. Learned APP Mr. J. K. Shah waives service of notice of rule for and on behalf of them. This Criminal Misc. Application is preferred under Section 482 of Cr. P. C for quashment of complaint being FIR No. I-CR No. 119 of 2012 registered with Kalavad Police Station, Jamnagar for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366 and 376 of IPC and under Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO'). The complainant is duly served with the notice. Mr. R. V. Vinchi, Police Sub Inspector of Kalavad Town Police Station is present before this Court. According to him, complainant has no resistance, as the prosecutrix girl has already married to the applicant. It appears from the record that the applicant and the prosecutrix are having a child of 1 and  years old. The officer has also ensured that he shall further facilitate amicable settlement between the complainant and daughter.

[case 385]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the proceedings in Special S. C. No. 92 of 2019, on the file of the Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive trial of cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012, Cuddalore. On the complaint of the 2nd respondent, a case in Crime No. 132 of 2019 was registered against the petitioner for offence under Sections 5(l), 6 & 9 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012 and Section 366 IPC. The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the petitioner and the victim girl were in love with each other which was opposed by the 2nd respondent, the mother of the victim girl. The victim girl was born in the year 2000 and she was a major at the time of occurrence. Since the 2nd respondent was making arrangement for marriage to the victim girl against her wish, the victim girl forced the petitioner to take her away. Otherwise, she would end her life and she was emotional and adamant. Having no other option, the petitioner and the victim girl left their parents and were together for some period. On coming to know about the registration of the case, the victim girl and the petitioner appeared before the 1st respondent Police, the victim girl informed that she was a major at the time of occurrence and she voluntarily forced the petitioner to take her. This explanation was not considered by the 1st respondent Police, since the 2nd respondent was in emotion and her relatives pressurized the 1st respondent Police to register a case.

[case 386]
XXX (Mother Of The Victim Girl) vs The State Of West Bengal & Ors on 11 March, 2025. Petitioner is aggrieved by the fact that in spite of informing the police authorities in respect of the sexual harassment inflicted upon her daughter, the police authorities are not effectively investigating the case which has encouraged the accused. Petitioner claims that the child as well as the other family members are being threatened as the private respondents are threatening and abusing them in filthy and derogatory languages. State has submitted a report. Report reflects that police authorities have recorded the statements of the witnesses as also the statement of the minor girl/victim girl which has been recorded under section 183 of the BNSS, 2023. The investigation commenced on 05. 02. 2025 and is still continuing. The police authorities will put in efforts to take the investigation of the case to its logical conclusion. However, since the petitioner being the mother of the victim girl has expressed her anxiety in respect of insecurity due to the threat of the accused respondents, it is directed that the police authorities would ensure that appropriate provisions of the POCSO Act and Rules are implemented to instill confidence amongst the witnesses who are the family members and the victim in the instant case. Petitioner will also be at liberty to approach the learned Special Court. Learned Special Court will call for a threat perception report and would pass necessary directions under the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018.

[case 387]
Kumar @ Kumaresan vs State on 21 August, 2017 The victim boy is the son the defacto complainant. On 17. 11. 2016, the victim boy went to his grandmothers house and stayed there. Next day morning at about 9. 00 a. m. , he went to school by a mini bus. After the school was over, he did not reach back to his parents house. On the way to his home he got down at Erode bus stand and was urinating behind the bus. The accused who came there in a motorcycle took the victim boy by telling that he would drop him at his house. As the accused took a different road, the victim boy questioned him. The accused threatened the victim boy and took him to a house in a place called Otta methai. During night times, the accused confined the victim inside a room and compelled him to have oral sex with him. He also committed anus- penile penetrative sexual offence with the boy. Whenever the boy cried out of fear, he was beaten by the accused. This had happened for one week. The victim boy found out the name of the accused as Kumar @ Kumaresan while the accused was talking through cell phone with others. One day when the accused was talking through cell phone, the victim boy escaped from there and came to his house. After coming home, he told about the occurrence to his father and his father taken him to the police station, where he had already given a complaint that the boy was missing. After the boy was enquired the charges of the case were altered to Sec. 365, 343 IPC and Section 6 of Protection of Children from sexual offences Act.

[case 388]
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / vs The State - Rep. By on 16 November, 2017
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
RESERVED ON: 25. 08. 2021
DELIVERED ON: 02. 09. 2021
CORAM: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. N. PRAKASH and THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE R. HEMALATHA
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / Appellant
The State - Rep. by The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Coimbatore(East), Coimbatore District. (Crime No. 19 of 2015). .. Complainant / Respondent
PRAYER: Criminal Appeal filed under Section 374 (2) of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 to set aside the Judgment dated 16. 11. 2017 of the Mahila Court, Coimbatore, passed in S. C. C. No. 15/2016, convicting and sentencing the appellant under Section 5 (l), (m), (n) and Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 to undergo imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- and in default, to undergo three months rigorous imprisonment.
The case of the prosecution as could be discerned from the evidence is as follows: The defacto complainant Nithya (PW1) is the wife of the appellant / accused Vishnubhaskar. The PW1 and the appellant were living separated for the last two years and Nithya (PW1) had left her girl child aged 3 years and 9 months with her parents living in Coimbatore, as she was employed in Bangalore. .. The conviction and sentence passed by the learned Judge, Mahila Court, Coimbatore in S. C. C. No. 15 of 2016 are perfectly in order and do not warrant any interference by this Court.

[case 389]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA KALABURAGI BENCH DATED THIS THE 01ST DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2018 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE G. NARENDAR CRIMINAL PETITION No. 200033/2018 Between: Yallaling S/o Shankerappa Mailari, Age: 35 years, Occ: Agriculture, R/o Martoor Village, Tq. Chittapur, Dist. Kalaburagi-585 228. .. . Petitioner (By Sri. Ustad Sadath Hussain, Advocate) And: The State Through Shahabad Town Police Station Tq. Chittapur, Dist. Kalaburagi Now Represented by Special Public Prosecutor, High Court of Karnataka Kalaburagi Bench-585 103. .. Respondent (By Sri. Mallikarjun Sahukar, HCGP). .. This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of Cr. P. C. , praying to release the accused petitioner on bail in Cr. No. 152/2017 of Shahabad Town P. S. Tq. Chittapur, Dist. Kalaburagi for the offences U/Sections 448, 376(2), 504, 323, 506 R/w Section 34 of IPC, pending on the file of the JMFC Court, at Shahabad, Dist. Kalaburagi. .. The petitioner is before this Court praying that he be released on bail in Crime No. 152/2017, registered with the respondent-Police for the offences punishable under Sections 8, 17, 4, 6 of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and under Section 506, 376(2)(n), 323, 448, 504 R/w Section 34 of IPC. .. . It is the case of the petitioner that the very fact that the victim did not raise any protests or did not cry out for any help is sufficient material to demonstrate that the same was a consensual act. .. Hence, he would pray that the petitioner be directed to be released on bail.

[case 390]
Present public interest litigation has been filed challenging the order dated 01st September, 2023 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge (Special Court-POCSO) ('ASJ-SC'), Shahdara District, Karkardooma Courts in SC 18/2022 titled State v. Raman Gautam & Anr. ('impugned order'), whereby the respondent nos. 3 and 4 herein were discharged of offences under Section 15(2) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO Act'). The petitioner also seeks guidelines while hearing cases involving Child Sexual Abuse Material ('CSAM') of unidentified child/children online or offline. A perusal of the impugned order reveals that respondent nos. 3 and 4 were arrayed as accused in FIR No. 20(S)/2021/CBI/SC-III/ New Delhi dated 14th November, 2021 filed by the CBI on the basis of information that respondent nos. 3 and 4 along with other unknown persons were involved in circulating, storing and viewing CASM through social media groups. Pursuant to registration of the aforesaid FIR, a search was conducted during which a phone and a hard-disk of five-hundred (500) GB was recovered from the house of respondent no. 3 on 16th November, 2021 and two mobile phones were also recovered from respondent no. 4. Upon investigation, thirty-four (34) videos from the mobile phone and fourteen (14) videos from the hard-disk were recovered from respondent no. 3 and twenty-five (25) videos were recovered from the phones of respondent no. 4, wherein children were depicted in sexually explicit manner.

[case 391]
This petition for release on bail under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr. P. C), in case arising out of first information report (FIR) no. 224/2016, involving offences punishable under Sections 354A/365/367/376/377/342/506 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) and Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act) of police station Nabi Karim, has brought to light a very disturbing background.
The petitioner is facing trial as accused in two session cases, each having arisen on the basis of reports presented by the station house officer of police station Nabi Karim. Each of the said cases involves, inter alia, offences under Section 6 of POCSO Act, the prosecutrix in each case being the same, aged between 13 and 15 years during the incidents. The evidence shows her date of birth to be 15. 01. 2001.
The trial in the first sessions case was underway when the second FIR leading to the current case was filed, involving serious allegations of rape and kidnapping against the petitioner. The prosecutrix had supported the prosecution's case and her testimony remains pivotal. The case has been cited for possible threats to her safety, as indicated through complaints made by her family concerning intimidation to change her statement in court. These events culminate in this court's consideration of whether the petitioner should remain in custody or be granted bail based on the evidence and concerns for the victims safety.

[case 392]
The accused who has been convicted for life sentence which would be till the end of the life time for the offences under Section 5(l) read with Section 6(1) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for brevity, ''POCSO Act'') with a fine of Rs. 1, 00, 000/-, in default to undergo simple imprisonment for 3 months and 7 years rigorous imprisonment for an offence under Section 363 of IPC along with a fine of Rs. 20, 000/- in default to undergo simple imprisonment for 3 months. The case of the prosecution is as follows: The accused who was running a tailoring shop in Perambur Village, Viralimalai Taluk, Pudukkottai District, had befriended the victim girl aged about 16 years when she went for tailoring training for about two months. The accused had enticed the girl and had sexually abused her. When the accused attempted to talk to the victim girl over cell phone at odd hours, her mother deprecated the practice and thereafter stopped the girl from attending the tailoring classes. However, the accused on 05. 12. 2020 came near the house of the victim girl and enticed her to meet him near Sengulam. The victim girl had left the house under the pretext of getting some old clothes stitched at about 04. 00 p. m. Since she did not return for a long time, the father of the victim girl went in search of her and was unsuccessful. He lodged a complaint with the respondent/Police under Ex. P1. The Police subsequently located the girl and confirmed the sexual abuse, leading to the accused's conviction.

[case 393]
Xxxxxx vs State Of Kerala on 16 January, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM. PRESENT THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V & THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. V. BALAKRISHNAN CRL. A NO. 636 OF 2022 AGAINST THE JUDGMENT DATED 29. 05. 2019 IN SC NO. 171 OF 2017. This appeal is filed by the sole accused in SC No. 171/2017, challenging his conviction and sentence imposed under Sections 376(2)(f), (n)&(i) and 506(ii) of IPC and Sections 5(l), (m)&(n) r/w Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012('POCSO Act' for short) by the Special Court for trial of offences under POCSO Act and Children's Court, Kalpetta. The prosecution case is that on 7/3/2017 at about 9 am and 4 pm, the accused, who is a close relative of the victim (PW1) aged 10 years, committed rape/aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon her after imparting threats to her, in the plantation. In the trial court, PW1 to PW13 were examined. The accused was finally convicted and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life for the remainder of his natural life and also to pay a fine of Rs. 50, 000/- each for the offences under Sections 376(2)(n), 376(2)(i) and 376(2)(f) of IPC with penalties for defaults. The accused contended that the investigation was flawed and the prosecution had no consistent case regarding the incident. However, the court held that the testimony of the victim was reliable, and it was established beyond reasonable doubt that the accused had committed aggravated sexual assault.

[case 394]
In brief, the case of the prosecution is that on 14. 08. 2013 a complaint was made by father of child victim to the police stating that he resided in a rented house and worked as a laborer. On 09. 09. 2013 at about 10. 00 AM, he went to his work and his wife also went to work at Janak Puri. His daughter, child victim aged 15 years was alone at the house. His wife informed him at about 5. 00 PM that the child victim was not at home. A call was received by the son of the complainant from Afsar Ali (accused), who informed that the child victim was with him. The accused had taken away the child victim after enticing her. On this complaint, the present case was registered. On 03. 12. 2013, the police brought the child victim and accused from Delhi High Court to the police station, Dabri. The statement of child victim under section 164 Cr. P. C. was got recorded. The child victim stated in her statement under section 164 Cr. P. C. that she knew the accused for last three years and she had told to her brother that she wanted to marry the accused but her brother did not agree and told her that he would not allow the child victim to marry the accused. Therefore, the child victim and accused decided to run away from their respective houses and on 09. 09. 2013 they fled from their houses. Child victim and accused had gone to the village of accused and there they married as per Muslim customs and continued to live there. They made an application before the Delhi High Court seeking protection but the same was dismissed.

[case 395]
Xxxxxx vs State Of Kerala on 16 January, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM. PRESENT THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V & THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. V. BALAKRISHNAN CRL. A NO. 636 OF 2022 AGAINST THE JUDGMENT DATED 29. 05. 2019 IN SC NO. 171 OF 2017. This appeal is filed by the sole accused in SC No. 171/2017, challenging his conviction and sentence imposed under Sections 376(2)(f), (n)&(i) and 506(ii) of IPC and Sections 5(l), (m)&(n) r/w Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012('POCSO Act' for short) by the Special Court for trial of offences under POCSO Act and Children's Court, Kalpetta. The prosecution case is that on 7/3/2017 at about 9 am and 4 pm, the accused, who is a close relative of the victim (PW1) aged 10 years, committed rape/aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon her after imparting threats to her, in the plantation. In the trial court, PW1 to PW13 were examined. The accused was finally convicted and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life for the remainder of his natural life and also to pay a fine of Rs. 50, 000/- each for the offences under Sections 376(2)(n), 376(2)(i) and 376(2)(f) of IPC with penalties for defaults. The accused contended that the investigation was flawed and the prosecution had no consistent case regarding the incident. However, the court held that the testimony of the victim was reliable and it was established beyond reasonable doubt that the accused had committed aggravated sexual assault.

[case 396]
Raj Kumar vs State on 3 December, 2019 IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI Reserved on: November 01, 2019 Decided on: December 03, 2019 Crl. Appeal no. 187/2018 RAJ KUMAR. .. . Appellant Through: Mr. Sharad Malhotra, Adv. for DHCLSC. versus STATE. .. .. Respondent Through: Mr. Kewal Singh Ahuja, APP for the State with ASI Ram Vilas, PS Pahar Ganj. Mr. Sarfraz Khan, Adv. for DSLSA. CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE R. K. GAUBA ORDER 1. This criminal appeal assailing conviction on charge of rape, notwithstanding the testimony of the prosecutrix conceding the relationship to be consensual, has led to revelation of a pattern of irresponsible exercise of jurisdiction vis--vis victim compensation scheme necessitating measures to be taken so as to curb misuse of public money. 2. The appellant was brought to trial in the court of Sessions (case no. 28940/2016) in the wake of report (charge-sheet) under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr. PC) dated 23. 08. 2016 submitted by the Station House Officer (SHO) of police station Pahar Ganj upon conclusion of investigation into first information report (no. 247/2016), on the accusations of his complicity in certain acts of commission or omission, the same statedly constituting offences punishable under Sections 376(2)(n) and (f), 313 and 506 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC). The Additional Sessions Judge presiding over the trial, by his judgment dated 27. 12. 2017, held the appellant guilty and thus convicted him, as charged, for the said offences.

[case 397]
Mohammed Fazil Aman vs State By Madiwala Police Station on 10 September, 2018. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 10TH DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2018 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE B. A. PATIL CRIMINAL PETITION NO. 5548/2018 Between: Mohammed Fazil Aman, S/o K. Aman Ullah Khan, Aged about 22 years, R/at No. 73, 1st Floor, 10th Cross, BTM 1st Stage, Bengaluru - 560 068. .. .Petitioner. And: State by Madiwala Police Station, Represented by State Public Prosecutor, High Court of Karnataka, Bengaluru-560001. .. .Respondent. This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure praying to enlarge the petitioner on bail in Crime No. 50/2018 of Madiwala Police Station, Bengaluru City and in Spl. C. C. No. 481/2018 pending on the file of LIV Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge (Child Friendly Court), Bengaluru for the offences punishable under Sections 376, 354, 504 and 506 of IPC and Sections 4 and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act. This Criminal Petition coming on for Orders, this day, the Court made the following: ORDER The present petition has been filed by the petitioner-accused under Section 439 of Cr. P. C. to release him on regular bail for the offences punishable under Sections 354, 376, 504, 506 of IPC and also under Sections 4 and 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 in Crime No. 50/2018 of Madiwala Police Station (Spl C. C. No. 481/2018) on the file of the LIV Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru (Child Friendly Court at Bengaluru). .. .

[case 398]
Vanita Vasant Patil vs The State Of Maharashtra on 2 November, 2018. Criminal Appeal No. 921 of 2014 filed by accused No. 1 Datta Somnath Jadhav is directed against the judgment and order dated 28th October, 2014 passed by the Additional Sessions Judge, Raigad-Alibag thereby convicting accused No. 1 Datta Somnath Jadhav for the offence punishable under Section 376(2)(b) of the Indian Penal Code read with Section 5(c), 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and sentencing him to suffer rigorous imprisonment for ten years and to pay fine of Rs. 20, 000/- and in default to suffer rigorous imprisonment for two years. The Trial Court also convicted accused No. 1 Datta Somnath Jadhav for the offence punishable under Sections 292, 509 of Indian Penal Code read with Section 14 of POCSO Act and sentenced him to suffer rigorous imprisonment for five years and to pay fine of Rs. 10, 000/, in default to suffer rigorous imprisonment for one year. All the sentences were directed to be run concurrently. Criminal Appeal No. 935 of 2014 filed by accused No. 2 - Vanita Vasant Patil is directed against the Judgment and Order dated 28th October, 2014 passed by the Additional Sessions Judge, Raigad-Alibag thereby convicting her for the offence punishable under Section 376(2)(b), 109 of Indian Penal Code read with Section 5(c), 6 and 17 of POSCO Act and sentencing her to suffer rigorous imprisonment for ten years and to pay fine of Rs. 10, 000/- and in default to suffer rigorous imprisonment for one year. ..

[case 399]
Balasubramani vs State Rep By on 16 June, 2017. .. THE VERY ESSENCE OF FATHER-DAUGHTER RELATIONSHIP HAS BEEN MAULED BEYOND RECOGNITION. An old saying goes like this 'The smile of a daughter is the secret purpose of every father'. On the contrary, here is the appellant who brought only miseries to her daughter and disgrace to himself. The victim girl was first sexually abused by her own father, the appellant, when she was studying VI standard and just after she attained puberty. As the victim P. W. 1 deposed, it all started in a very mild manner when she was fondled and made to believe that it was common. Subsequently, the appellant forced himself on her and when resisted he convinced her by mentioning that it happens in every family. The victim girl was in an age at which she was neither a kid nor a teenager. The absence of her mother who was away from home either in the night shift or due to her profession made things easier for the appellant. The appellant also did not have any sort of guilt feeling and continued with his activities forcibly. It is also learnt from the evidence that at one point of time, he went to the extent of threatening his daughter with dire consequences. He also threatened that he would murder her mother too if things were leaked out. The victim child had a trauma filled childhood and with no one to confide, she had tolerated her father's sexual assaults till she gathered courage to inform her relatives P. W. 4 and P. W. 5 and later called up the child helpline 1098.

[case 400]
The petition has been filed seeking to quash the FIR in Crime No. 266 of 2018 pending investigation on the file of the first respondent police for the offences punishable under Sections 366(A), 376 of IPC and Sections 4 & 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act (POCSO), 2012. The FIR in Crime No. 266 of 2018 was registered based on the complaint given by the second respondent/defacto complainant, that his minor daughter was found missing. The learned counsel for the petitioner would submit that based on the complaint given by the second respondent/defacto complainant, the first respondent had registered a case in Crime No. 266 of 2018 under the caption Girl Missing. During the course of investigation, it was found that the first petitioner had kidnapped the minor girl and had committed a sexual assault on the victim/minor girl. The second petitioner who is the brother of the first petitioner has also been implicated in this case for abetting the first petitioner. Now the case is pending investigation. The learned counsel for the petitioner would further submit that the first petitioner and the second respondent/defacto complainant belong to the same locality and they also belong to the same community. He would further submit that the first petitioner being an uneducated person without understanding the rigors and consequences of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act (POCSO) had eloped with the victim/daughter of the second respondent/defacto complainant.

[case 401]
Tanya Pandey vs State Of U. P. And 5 Others on 5 January, 2021. This writ petition has been filed seeking the following reliefs: (A) Issue a writ, order or direction in the nature of Habeas Corpus to set the corpus free at her liberty from illegal detention of respondent no. 5. (B) issue a writ, order or direction in the nature of mandamus commanding the respondents to handover the custody of corpus to the petitioner. This writ petition has been filed on behalf of petitioner (corpus) through Smt. Usha Devi mother of the accused Ravishankar Thakur against whom F. I. R. No. 0050 dated 25. 04. 2020 under Section 363/366 I. P. C. was lodged. During course of the investigation Section 176(3) I. P. C. and Section 5(j)(ii), and 5(1)/6 of the POCSO Act were also added. As per the statement of the corpus recorded on 07. 08. 2020 under Section 164 Cr. P. C. in which she had stated her age to be 16 years. As per F. I. R. version the age of the corpus is 15 years. The corpus was sent in the custody of Superintendent, Balika Grih Social Welfare Society, district Mau by order dated 31. 7. 2020 passed by Chairman, Child Welfare Committee. As per education certificate of the corpus, her date of birth is 20. 05. 2005. The impugned order passed by the Child Welfare Committee is in exercise of powers under Section 37 of the J. J. Act. Under the circumstances, when undisputedly corpus - petitioner is a juvenile within the meaning of Section 2(35) and is in need of care and protection within the meaning of Section 2(14)

[case 402]
Yallappa vs The State Of Karnataka on 6 April, 2023. This CRL. A FILED U/S. 374 (2) OF CR. P. C PRAYING TO SET ASIDE THE JUDGMENT AND SENTENCE DATED 13. 03. 2020 PASSED IN SPL. C. POCSO NO. 4/2020 BY THE II ADDL. DIST. AND SESSIONS JUDGE AT KALABURAGI FOR CONVICTING THE APPELLANT/ ACCUSED FOR THE OFFENCES PUNISHABLE UNDER SEC. 366(A), 376(2)(I) 302, 201 OF IPC AND U/SEC. 6 IF POCSO ACT, 2012. A girl (hereinafter referred to as `deceased victim girl') aged about 8 years was residing with her parents at Yakapura village. Her parents had four children i. e. one son and three daughters. Deceased victim girl was third daughter to her parents and was studying in 2nd Standard. A case of kidnapping and murder was filed against Yallappa for the gruesome murder of the minor girl. The trial court concluded that there were ample evidences of circumstantial nature suggesting Yallappa's guilt, leading to his conviction. The appeal for the death penalty was filed as the original sentence was death due to the heinous nature of the charges. The final ruling upheld the conviction while commuting the death sentence to life imprisonment with a fine, citing the nature of the crime, especially against minors, as requiring a serious response under law. With consideration of all legal rights and protections under the law, especially under POCSO Act, the judgement emphasized the necessity to protect vulnerable children and ensure justice whether through direct legal actions or compensations for victims' families.

[case 403]
Sikkim High Court Nar Bahadur Subba vs State Of Sikkim on 7 October, 2016 Appellant: Nar Bahadur Subba, Aged about 73 years, S/o Late Sanja Man Subba, R/o Middle Rumbuk, Sombaria, West Sikkim. [Presently in Central Prison, Rongyek, East Sikkim] Respondent: State of Sikkim Appeal under Section 374(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. This Appeal seeks to assail the Judgment and Order on Sentence of the Learned Special Judge (POCSO), West Sikkim at Gyalshing, in Sessions Trial (POCSO) Case No. 09 of 2014, both dated 25-05-2015, in which the Appellant was sentenced to undergo ten years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- (Rupees five thousand) only, under Section 5(l) and Section 5(m) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short "POCSO Act") with a default clause of imprisonment. The facts leading to the instant matter are that, P. W. 1 the Panchayat President of Rumbuk GPU on 11-06-2014, at 1800 hours, lodged an FIR, Exhibit 1, before the Sombaria Police Station, informing therein that the victim P. W. 2, aged about eleven years was repeatedly sexually assaulted by the Appellant who belonged to the victim's locality. P. W. 1 had been informed of this by P. W. 5 Pranita Rai teacher of the school which P. W. 2 attended. Pursuant to the FIR, Sombaria P. S. Case was registered on the same date, under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code (for short "IPC") read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act against the Appellant and investigation taken up.

[case 404]
Smt. Shabnam Khatoon @ Sandisha And. .. vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 5 August, 2019. Heard learned counsel for the petitioners; learned A. G. A. for the respondents 1, 2 and 3; and perused the record. Notice was sent to the respondent no. 4. As per the office report dated 27. 07. 2019, CJM, Maharajganj has reported that notice has been served upon the respondent no. 4. However, no one has appeared on behalf of the respondent no. 4. In this habeas corpus petition, the petitioner no. 2, Amjad Hussain, has prayed for a direction upon the third respondent to produce the corpus (Shabnam @ Sandisha) before the Court and to set her at liberty after recording her statement. A perusal of the record would reveal that Nirmala Devi (respondent no. 4) had lodged a first information report at P. S. Nichlaul, District Maharajganj, on 21. 12. 2016, which was registered for offences punishable under Sections 363, 366 IPC and Section 7/8 of Pocso Act as Case Crime No. 625 of 2016. In the said first information report, one of the accused was Amjad Hussain (petitioner no. 2). It was alleged in the first information report that informant's daughter, Km. Sandisha (corpus), had studied in Purva Madhyamik Vidayalaya Kohadval upto class VIII, she is aged 14 years; and she has been enticed away by the accused. The matter was investigated and it appears that proceedings are pending before the Special Judge, Pocso Act, under Sections 363, 366 and 376 IPC and Sections 3/4 read with Section 16/17 of Pocso Act.

[case 405]
The present revision is moved on behalf of the accused-applicants involved in Case Crime No. 287 of 2017, under Section 376-D Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Section 7/8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Police Station PGI, District Lucknow. The revision is directed against the order of Addl. Sessions Judge/Special Judge POCSO Act, Lucknow dated 22. 07. 2019. Learned A. G. A. termed the order impugned in this revision as an interlocutory order and argued against the admissibility under sub Section (2) of Section 397 Cr. P. C. The court noted whether the impugned order was passed misconstruing the provisions of Section 38 of the POCSO Act. The victim was a 5-year-old girl who was sexually abused at her school. The order allowing the victim to have an interpreter was challenged by the accused's counsel, claiming that the provision applies only to children with disabilities. The court elaborated on the necessity of providing an interpreter based on the age and ability of the child to communicate. Section 38 allows the court discretion in appointing an interpreter while asserting that being 'unable to communicate' differs from being 'disabled'. The court highlighted that the spirit of Section 38(1) aligns with the provisions of the Evidence Act, emphasizing the importance of ensuring the child can effectively communicate during judicial proceedings. The order was thus considered interlocutory and dismissed as non-admissible under Section 397(2) of Cr. P. C.

[case 406]
Ankit Kumar vs The State Of Bihar on 27 January, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA. CRIMINAL REVISION No. 592 of 2023 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -160 Year-2022 Thana- JALALGARH District- Purnia. The petitioner Md. Arshad is under the Guardianship Of His Father Masruddin. He has been accused of multiple offenses including rape under POSCO Act. This case highlights the procedural context surrounding juveniles in conflict with law and emphasizes the need for proper legal representation and guardianship. The case law underlines that each juvenile should be assessed individually as per Section 12 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. In criminal revision no. 592/2023, the CICL has been in remand home since 11. 10. 2023 in connection with P. S. Case No. 160/2022 registered under sections 147, 148, 323, 376, 313, 379, 504, 506 IPC and Section 4 and 6 of the POSCO Act for committing the offence of rape upon a minor continuously for 3 years upon the girl aged about 14 years. After the F. I. R. was lodged against the petitioner, the petitioner claimed his plea of juvenility. After proper inquiry, the petitioner was held to be a juvenile by the Juvenile Justice Board Purnia. The board assessed the age of the petitioner to be between 16 to 18 years. This case also reflects on the responsibilities of guardians and portrays the critical role of the Juvenile Justice System in protecting minors and offering them a chance at rehabilitation.

[case 407]
Madras High Court David Inbaraj vs / on 27 October, 2022. The appellant herein is the sole accused. During the year 2013, while the accused was serving as a Pastor in the local church, P. W-2, a minor at that time used to attend the Church since her family members belong to the said church. Taking advantage of his position as Pastor, the accused allured and enticed P. W-2 with gifts and promise of luxury life and kidnapped her on 16/04/2013 from the lawful custody of her parents with an intention to exploit her sexually. He took her to various places like Siliguri, Nagaland and Hosur and under threat and force, had sexual intercourse with P. W-2 on several occasions for nearly 7 months. On the complaint of P. W-1, who is the father of the victim girl and by P. W-3, who is the wife of the accused, police traced the accused and P. W-2 at a lodge in Hosur and later, secured on 14/12/2013. He was tried for committing offences punishable under section 363 I. P. C and Section 4 of POCSO Act. The Trial Court after appreciating the evidence, held the accused guilty and sentenced him to undergo 10 years R. I and to pay fine of Rs. 10, 000/- in default 1 year R. I for offence under Section 4 of POCSO Act. Sentenced him to undergo 5 years R. I and to pay fine of Rs. 2000/- in default 6 months R. I for offence under Section 363 I. P. C. The term of imprisonment was ordered to run concurrently. The period of imprisonment undergone pending trial ordered to set off under Section 428 of Cr. P. C.

[case 408]
By the instant appeal, the appellant Chander Singh challenges the impugned judgment dated 17th December, 2013 whereby he has been convicted for the offence defined under Section 9(k), punishable under Section 10 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2002 (in short the POCSO Act) in FIR No. 80/2013 registered at PS Mangol Puri and the order on sentence dated 18th December, 2013 directing him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six years and fine of `5, 000/- in default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of three months. The prosecution case in brief is that on February 09, 2013 at about 7. 28 PM, PW12 HC Laxman Singh was handed-over DD No. 18, Ex. PW-12/A informing that a boy was kidnapping a girl and the said boy was apprehended by the caller at K Block complex. On reaching the spot, the officer found Chander Singh apprehended by public. Raj Kumar who made the call to the PCR was found to be the maternal uncle of the prosecutrix, who was a minor, deaf and dumb girl aged 12 years. Statement of the mother of the prosecutrix was recorded wherein she stated that at around 7. 00 PM her daughter aged 12 years who was deaf and dumb had gone to throw garbage in the dustbin. She returned back in a perplexed and perturbed condition. When she and her brother asked her, she explained by sign language that near the dustbin one man pressed her mouth, her breast and the lower abdomen.

[case 409]
Dr. R. Vijayanirmala vs The Superintendent Of Police on 7 September, 2016. Crl. OP. No. 19677 of 2016 has been filed to direct the 2nd respondent to register a case on the complaint dated 07. 08. 2016 on the file of the respondent and investigate into the matter. Crl. OP. No. 19678 of 2016 has been filed to direct the respondent police not to harass the petitioner and to take action against the responsible persons. When these matters were taken up for hearing, learned Additional Public Prosecutor [Pondy] submitted that on the complaint lodged by a child that she was sexually abused by Dr. P. Rajendran, the husband of this petitioner, the 2nd respondent Police have registered a case in Crime No. 172 of 2016 under Section 9[e] and 10 of POCSO Act against Rajendran, who is said to be absconding, in respect of an incident that is said to have taken place on 09. 07. 2016, in the Hospital that is run by the petitioner and her husband. While so, the petitioner has sent a complaint dated 07. 08. 2016 alleging that the child's relatives had ransacked the Hospital and damaged some equipment. Learned Additional Public Prosecutor [Pondy] submitted that pursuant to the FIR registered against the petitioner's husband on the complaint given by the child-victim, the present complaint dated 07. 08. 2016 has been given by the petitioner as a counter blast. The petitioner is directed to cooperate in the enquiry with the Police and during enquiry, the petitioner shall not be harassed.

[case 410]
Brijesh Yadav @ Lauaa vs State Of U. P. on 24 November, 2023. This application for bail has been filed by applicant-Brijesh Yadav @ Lauaa seeking his enlargement on bail in Case Crime No. 253 of 2022, under Sections 147, 149, 302 I. P. C. , Police Station-Jaswantnagar, District- Etawah during the pendency of trial. Record shows that in respect of an incident which is alleged to have occurred on 22. 06. 2023, a delayed F. I. R. dated 23. 06. 2023 was lodged by first informant Suraj Pal (uncle of the deceased) and was registered as Case Crime No. 253 of 2022, under Sections 147, 149, 302 I. P. C. , Police Station-Jaswantnagar, District- Etawah. In the aforesaid F. I. R. three persons namely Renu Yadav, Ashish Yadav and Rahul Balmiki have been nominated as named accused, whereas, an unknown person has also been arraigned as accused. After above-mentioned F. I. R. was lodged, Investigating Officer proceeded with statutory investigation of concerned case crime number in terms of Chapter XII Cr. P. C. Thereafter, the inquest (Panchayatnama) on the body of the deceased was conducted. In the opinion of the witnesses of inquest (Panch Witnesses) the nature of death of the deceased was categorized as homicidal and the cause of death was said to be head injury sustained by the deceased. The applicant is not named in the F. I. R. , yet he is liable to be enlarged on bail. Present case is a case of circumstantial evidence, therefore, there is no eye-witness of the occurrence.

[case 411]
Gayatri And Another vs State Of U. P. And 4 Others on 8 August, 2019. This habeas corpus petition has been filed by Ramu for production of the corpus (Gayatri-petitioner no. 1) and to set her at liberty after setting aside the order dated 20. 09. 2018 passed by the Child Welfare Committee under which the corpus has been placed in a Protection Home i. e. Nari Niketan, Khuldabad, Prayagraj. A perusal of the record would reveal that on 12. 09. 2018 the fifth respondent (Rampati) had lodged a first information report at P. S. Malwa, District Fatehpur against Ramu and four others complaining that his minor daughter, Gayatri, has been enticed away by the accused persons. The said first information report was registered as Case Crime No. 263 of 2018 for offences punishable under Sections 363, 366, 120-B I. P. C. and section 7/8 Pocso Act. Pursuant thereto, the corpus was placed before the Child Welfare Committee. The Child Welfare Committee upon finding that the corpus is a minor, with date of birth recorded as 02. 01. 2002, and that she is not willing to go with her parents, by order dated 20. 09. 2018, directed her to be placed in a Protection Home. In this habeas corpus petition, the petitioners have claimed that since in the first information report, lodged by the father of the corpus, the corpus is shown aged 17 years, by now, as nearly one year has passed, the corpus would have attained the age of majority therefore cannot be detained against her wishes.

[case 412]
Ritesh Kumar @ Dhyani Sah vs The State Of Bihar on 10 February, 2022. This criminal appeal has been preferred against the order dated 17. 03. 2021, whereby and whereunder the learned Ist Additional Sessions Judge-cum-Special Judge, Children's Court, Sitamarhi, has rejected the prayer for bail of the appellant in connection with Bela P. S. Case No. 85 of 2020 registered for the offence under Sections 341, 342, 323, 354(B), 504/34 of the I. P. C. and Section 4 of the POCSO Act. The facts of the case, in brief, is that the daughter of the informant, aged about 11 years, went to the field to fetch cattle feed when the appellant and Suraj Kumar Mahto (co- accused) alongwith 8-10 other unknown persons came near his daughter and started making her video and when she opposed, all of them, lifted and took her to Teliahi Tola. Then her father got the information who informed Bela Police Station and the police officials came there after 3-4 hours but she was released prior to the arrival of the police officials. They abused her by calling out filthy words and they also molested her and also threatened her that if she discloses anything about the occurrence, she would be killed. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, Social Investigation Report of the appellant was called for from the concerned Probation Officer. The Probation Officer in his report has reported that the appellant is not in company of any criminal or anti-social element.

[case 413]
State By Hebbal Police vs Puneeth on 22 December, 2015. IN THE COURT OF THE LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE AT BANGALORE CITY. Present: SMT. VIJAYALAXMI S. UPANAL, M. A. , LL. M. , LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE, BANGALORE CITY. Spl. C. C. No. 463/2014 COMPLAINANT State by Hebbal Police, Bangalore City. (By Learned Public Prosecutor) -Vs - ACCUSED Puneeth, S/o. Late Umesh, 22yrs, R/at. 3rd Cross, B-Narayanapura, Mahadevapura, Bangalore-48. (By Sri. T. D-Advocate. ) 1. Date of commission of offence 15-07-2014 2. Date of report of occurrence 24-07-2014 3. Date of arrest of Accused 26-07-2014 Date of release of Accused 27-12-2014 Period undergone in custody by Accused 05 months & 1 day. 4. Date of commencement of evidence 10-06-2015 5. Date of closing of evidence 18-09-2015 6. Name of the complainant Shashikala 7. Offences complained of Sections 366-A, 376 of IPC & Section 5(l) r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act-2012. 8. Opinion of the Judge Accused found not guilty. 9. Order of sentence As per the final order. The judge noted that the role of victim support services is paramount in cases of child abuse as they provide essential follow-up and counseling that can help minor survivors. It is evident that effective victim support should include legal representation, psychological support, and victim advocacy to navigate the complexities of legal proceedings. By focusing on the overall well-being of the victim, a more just legal outcome can be achieved.

[case 414]
The instant anticipatory bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant, Sunil Kumar, with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 0049 of 2019, under Sections- 363, 376 IPC and Section 5/6 of POCSO Act, Police Station- Mohammadabad, District- Fatehgarh, during pendency of trial. There is allegation against the applicant of enticement of minor girl and rape on her. Counsel for the applicant has pointed out to the statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C. , wherein she has stated that she had left her house and went with the applicant of her own sweet will. On 05. 12. 2018 she has married him in a temple. She has a child born in the year 2019 from the applicant. She wants to live with him and she entered into physical relationship with the applicant on her own sweet will. Counsel for the applicant has submitted that the date of birth of the victim is 01. 01. 2002 and therefore at the time of alleged offence she was aged about 18 years. However, when the statement of the victim was recorded on 20. 11. 2020, she has ratified her marriage and as per the judgment in the case of Pradeep Tomar and Another vs. State of U. P. and Another, the marriage of the minor is voidable at her option. After becoming major she has ratified her marriage with the applicant and therefore the offence alleged against the applicant is not made out. The applicant has definite apprehension that he may be arrested by the police any time.

[case 415]
Sc No. 7/2014: Fir No. 453/2014: Ps. .. vs Aalam Dod: 20. 04. 2015 on 7 May, 2015. The facts of the case, as borne out from the record are that on 06. 11. 2013, at about 6. 25 PM, an information through PCR was received in PS Shalimar Bagh in respect of one person having molested eight years old child. The said information was reduced into writing in the PS as DD No. 38A. In due course the investigation w. r. t the said DD was handed over to IO, SI Sarita, who alongwith W/Ct. Suman and Ct. Suresh went to the site, i. e park, near Jhuggi No. 125, Lohia Camp, Haiderpur, where she found victim children namely M, aged about 7 years, child T, aged about 4 years, their parents and relative Shri Pradeep. The mother of the victim children communicated to the IO that their neighbourer Alam had done 'ched chad' with the victim children. At the spot, the IO made enquiries from children M and T. Thereafter, IO took the children to BJRM Hospital, where their medical examination was got conducted. Considering the sensitivity of the matter, the IO also called a counsellor from an NGO. The counsellor counselled the children in the hospital itself, after their medical examination. Thereafter, the IO recorded the statement of child M and returned to the spot with both the children, their parents and relative Shri Pradeep. The accused was arrested and his medical examination was also got conducted. After completion of investigation, chargesheet in the matter was filed.

[case 416]
The instant writ petition has been filed by the Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI) challenging the constitutional validity of Sections 23(1) and 23(2) of the Preconception and Prenatal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act, 1994 and seeking direction in the nature of certiorari/mandamus for decriminalising anomalies in paperwork/record keeping. The Society contends that the Act was meant to prohibit prenatal diagnostic techniques leading to female foeticide. Despite this, the Child Sex Ratio has not improved significantly, and the Act is being implemented more in letter than in spirit. The Society argues that the ambiguous wording of Section 23(1) leads to grave injustices, equating clerical errors with serious offences such as sex determination. The inherent weakness in the law has resulted in proper doctors facing harassment without actual evidence of misconduct. Furthermore, Section 23(2) allows for the indefinite suspension of a doctors registration based on preliminary findings, assuming guilt prior to any conviction, violating the fundamental right to a fair trial as guaranteed by Article 21. The Act's presumption of innocence is a cardinal principle that should not be abandoned. In light of this, the Society seeks clarity on how best to address these discrepancies, positing that minor clerical errors should not lead to such drastic measures against medical practitioners.

[case 417]
The petitioner herein is the defacto complainant on whose complaint the respondent-police registered a case in their Cr. No. 23/2014 in respect of the offence under Sections 354, 376(i) and (j), 337 of IPC and Sections 4, 5(f) and (m), 6 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act). The case of the prosecution is, the 1st accused works as a van driver for Xseed Pre-School, Sarajapura Road, Bengaluru. The respondents 2 and 3 herein (A-2 and A-3) are the Teacher and Ayah respectively. The victim child is aged 2 years 11 months and attends play group in the school. On 7. 1. 2014 since the child was crying, A-2 and A-3 handed over the child to A-1 who in turn took the child to a Maruthi van parked in the premises of the school and committed penetrative sexual assault on her. The application was contested by the defence and the learned Trial Judge rejected the application. Learned counsel continues, in all probability, A-2 and A-3 who received the child after the incident must have smelt the occurrence of the sexual abuse on the child, still they omitted to report the matter to the police or school Authority, thereby they have committed a serious crime. Statutory presumption operates about culpable mental state of the accused persons in committing the offence under Section 30 of the Act pervades the situation. By their omission and silence, they have committed the offence punishable under section 21 of the Act.

[case 418]
High Court Of Karnataka vs The State Of Karnataka on 13 August, 2021. This writ petition is filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, praying to issue directions to the State Forensic Science Laboratory/Regional Forensic Science Laboratories to expedite processing of the samples and furnish the FSL analysis reports as early as possible to ensure speedy trial of criminal cases. The Writ Petition, having been filed on 08. 02. 2021, notice was issued to the respondents. A direction came to be issued to the Director of the State Forensic Science Laboratory to place on record the details of the infrastructure, machines, human resources etc. , needed to strengthen the State level and Regional level laboratories. The affidavit revealed significant vacancies in the positions necessary for the efficiency of forensic investigations. The government acknowledged the critical role of the FSL in the criminal justice system, and the Chief Justice directed recruiting measures along with improving infrastructure and expediting processes to ensure timely analysis and resolution of cases. The need for establishing additional sections in forensic laboratories was also highlighted. Further interim directions required a compliance report on recruitment efforts, operationalizing regional forensic laboratories, filling vacancies, and ensuring that forensic reports are submitted within specific time frames to facilitate rapid judicial proceedings.

[case 419]
Abhishek And 5 Others vs State Of U. P. And Another on 8 January, 2025. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Case: - APPLICATION U/S 482 No. - 36112 of 2024. Brief facts of the case are that a first information report has been lodged by opposite party no. 2? Mahendi Devi on 28. 11. 2023 at 13: 55 hrs. bearing Case Crime No. 378 of 2023, under Sections 498-A, 323, 504, 506 IPC and 3/4 D. P. Act, against six persons who are the applicants herein with the allegation that marriage of daughter of opposite party no. 2 was solemnized with Abhishek? applicant no. 1 on 08. 12. 2021 according to Hindu rites and rituals. About Rs. 15 Lakh were spent in the aforesaid marriage. Out of the wedlock, a girl child was born on 03. 02. 2023. The applicant mentally and physically tortured daughter of opposite party no. 2 raising additional dowry demand. On 29. 09. 2023 when son of O. P. No. 2, namely, Jay Kishan had gone to place of the applicants for vidai of his sister Anita, he saw all the applicants assaulting his sister. He was also pushed and forced to leave the house. The O. P. No. 2 moved an application on 03. 10. 2023 before the S. S. P. , Moradabad whereafter on 20. 10. 2023 compromise took place in Mahila Thana, Moradabad and Abhishek took Anita along with him. Despite the said compromise in Mahila Thana, Moradabad, the applicants did not change their conduct and demanded one car and five lakh rupees and also assaulted daughter of O. P. No. 2 for the same.

[case 420]
Baburao S/O. Govinda Kumoti (In Jail) vs State Of Maharashtra Thr. Pso Police. .. on 2 May, 2018. .. The appellant-accused is aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 27-10-2016 rendered by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Gadchiroli in Special POCSO Case 12/2015, by and under which the accused is convicted for offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the Indian Penal Code ('IPC' for short) and Section 4 read with Section 17 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ('POCSO Act' for short) and is further convicted for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC and is sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to payment of fine of Rs. 3, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 4 read with Section 17 of the POCSO Act and to suffer rigorous imprisonment for three years and to payment of fine of Rs. 2, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC. Separate sentence for offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the IPC is not awarded. .. . The only other witness who is examined as a witness to the incident is P. W. 5 Someshwar Gota. He has deposed that he returned home from field between 8-00 to 8. 30 a. m. and in view of the alarm raised by P. W. 2, came out of the house. P. W. 5 states that the mother of the victim told him that the accused had confined her daughter on the pretext of applying medicines and requested for his help.

[case 421]
After investigation, the respondent police laid the charge sheet before Mahila cum Children Court, and the same was subsequently transferred to the Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive trial of cases under POCSO Act. The learned Sessions Judge taken the charge sheet on file in S. C. No. 183 of 2018 and after completing the formalities under Sec. 207 of Cr. P. C. framed charges against the appellant for the offence punishable under Sec. 12 and 6 of POCSO Act. After framing of charges, in order to prove the case of prosecution, on the side of prosecution, as many as 6 witnesses were examined as P. W. 1 to P. W. 6, 12 documents were marked as Ex. P1 to P12, besides, one material object was marked as M. O. 1. After completing the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, incriminating circumstances culled out from the evidence of the prosecution witnesses were put before the appellant / accused by questioning under Section 313 Cr. P. C. with reference to the incriminating circumstances appeared on the prosecution witnesses, the same were denied by the accused as false and pleaded not guilty. The learned Government Advocate (Criminal Side) would submit that the age of victim at the time of occurrence is only 5 years. The date of birth of victim is 13. 06. 2012. .. the victim has displayed consistency in her testimony regarding the incident. This Court also, as an appellate court, as a fact finding court, independently re-appreciated the evidence. ..

[case 422]
The case of the prosecution is that based on the compliant filed by respondent No. 2 on 17. 11. 2022, the police registered FIR in Crime No. 242/2022. She stated that she married accused No. 1 on 29. 05. 2005. Subsequently, she was residing with him in the house where accused Nos. 2 to 5 were also residing. They looked after her well for about 5 months and thereafter started harassing her mentally and physically. On 26. 03. 2006, respondent No. 2 gave birth to a female child. Even though the accused persons were informed, they came to see the child after 11 days and blamed her for not giving birth to a male child. The accused persons did not take respondent No. 2 back to their home. Respondent No. 2 waited for 8 months. But, the accused persons did not bother to take her back. Therefore, the family members of respondent No. 2 took her back to her matrimonial home. Thereafter, once again they started harassing her and abused her in filthy language. After 4 years, respondent No. 2 gave birth to another female child. Again, the accused persons blamed her for not begetting a male child. Subsequently, the accused persons said to have thrown her out of the house. On 16. 11. 2022 at about 4: 40 p. m. , the accused Nos. 1 to 5 said to have come and assaulted respondent No. 2 and abused her in filthy language. They also threatened her with dire consequences, in case she filed any complaint in the police station. Hence, she filed the complaint on 17. 11. 2022.

[case 423]
Xxx (Mother Of The Victim Girl) vs The State Of West Bengal & Ors on 11 March, 2025. The petitioner is aggrieved by the fact that in spite of informing the police authorities in respect of the sexual harassment inflicted upon her daughter, the police authorities are not effectively investigating the case which has encouraged the accused. The petitioner claims that the child as well as the other family members are being threatened as the private respondents are threatening and abusing them in filthy and derogatory languages. The state has submitted a report. The report reflects that police authorities have recorded the statements of the witnesses as also the statement of the minor girl/victim girl which has been recorded under section 183 of the BNSS, 2023. The investigation commenced on 05. 02. 2025 and is still continuing. However, since the petitioner being the mother of the victim girl has expressed her anxiety in respect of insecurity due to the threat of the accused respondents, it is directed that the police authorities would ensure that appropriate provisions of the POCSO Act and Rules are implemented to instill confidence amongst the witnesses who are the family members and the victim in the instant case. Petitioner will also be at liberty to approach the learned Special Court. The learned Special Court will call for a threat perception report and would pass necessary directions under the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018.

[case 424]
The State having been granted leave to appeal vide order dated 22. 04. 2015 in Crl. L. P. 254/2014, assails the impugned judgment dated 20. 02. 2013 of the learned ASJ-01, North East, KKD Courts, Delhi in Sessions Case No. 16/12 arising out of FIR No. 424/11, PS New Usmanpur wherein the respondent was acquitted qua the offences punishable under Sections 342/376/511 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. The prosecution in the instant case is indicated to have been launched vide the registration of DD No. 40A Ex. PW7/A at PS New Usmanpur at 9. 48 PM as per information received from the PCR of rape of a girl child near Som Bazar at Usmanpur at House no. A-230, Gali No. 11, on receipt of which the Investigation Officer, PW-7 SI Vikrant Sharma along with PW-8, Constable Banwari Lal reached the spot where PW-5 Ms. Y the neighbor of the victim, the victim PW-4 Ms. X aged 5 years and PW-6 Mr. Z i. e. the father of the minor girl child met them. After the learned Trial Court was satisfied about the capacity of the minor child to understand questions and reply to the same, the minor child victim PW-4 i. e. Ms. X was examined and stated that the accused had taken her to a room on the upper floor. It is apparent thus, that in the circumstances of the instant case where the testimonies of PW-4 & PW-5 are consistent in relation to all material particulars qua the incident, the discrepancies in relation to the floor on which the incident occurred is insignificant.

[case 425]
Kuttappan @ Babukuttan vs State Of Kerala on 31 August, 2022. This Criminal Appeal having been finally heard on 11. 8. 2022, the Court on 31. 08. 2022, delivered the following: K. VINOD CHANDRAN & C. JAYACHANDRAN, JJ. Criminal Appeal No. 1308 of 2018. Dated this the 31st day of August, 2022. J U D G M E N T Jayachandran, J. "Rape is not merely a physical assault - it is often destructive of the whole personality of the victim. A murderer destroys the physical body of his victim, a rapist degrades the very soul of the helpless female. [State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh and Others (1996(2) SCC 284)] Rape is most foul when it is alleged to have been committed by a father on his minor daughter. Unfortunate are the facts involved in the instant appeal, where the allegation is one of rape by the accused/father on his minor daughter on several occasions in the month of December 2012, thus committing the offence under S. 376 of the Penal Code, as also, under Ss. 5, r/w 6 and 9, r/w 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Parading 15 witnesses, the prosecution adduced evidence and got marked Exts. P1 to P12. Except marking Exts. D1 and D2 contradictions, no evidence, whatsoever, was adduced on behalf of the defence. The Sessions Court found that the evidence tendered by PW1, the victim, to be genuine and credible and convicted the accused for all the offences charged, which judgment is under challenge in the instant appeal.

[case 426]
While the petitioner got an employment at Chennai and was not able to locate a residential accommodation in time and also since both herself and her husband were employed, she had temporarily left her minor daughter in the custody of her mother/4th respondent herein on 14. 10. 2023 at Mannargudi. Thereafter, she used to visit her child every weekend. On 30. 11. 2023, when the petitioner was informed that her daughter was brought to Chennai, she had visited her in the presence of both the 3rd and 4th respondents. On the next day, i. e. , on 01. 12. 2023, the petitioner's husband was arrested by the 1st respondent Police in connection with Crime No. 477/2023 for the offences under Sections 5(m)(n)(l) and 6(1) of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as 'POCSO Act') and remanded to judicial custody, based on the 3rd respondent's complaint that he had sexually assaulted his daughter. After this incident, both 3rd and 4th respondents had retained custody of the child and refused to hand her over to the petitioner. In this connection, the petitioner had given a written complaint dated 08. 12. 2023 to the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar, for retrieving her child and for taking action against the 3rd and 4th respondents. Since there was no response to the complaint given, she has filed the present Habeas Corpus Petition (HCP), seeking for securing her child and handing over the custody to her.

[case 427]
Vivek Tiwari vs The State Of Bihar on 8 February, 2024. .. Chandra Shekhar Jha. .. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL APPEAL (SJ) No. 3293 of 2023 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -16 Year-2019 Thana- NATWAR District- Rohtas ====================================================== Vivek Tiwari, son of Dhanjee Tiwari, resident of Gopalpur, P. S. - Kargahar, District- Rohtas. .. . Appellant Versus The State of Bihar. .. Respondent ====================================================== Appearance: For the Appellant/s: Mr. Ajay Kumar Thakur, Advocate Mr. Rajeev Ranjan, Advocate Mr. Prince Kumar Mishra, Advocate Ms. Vaishnavi Singh, Advocate For the State: Mr. Anand Mohan Prasad Mehta, APP For the Informant: Mr. Ravi Shankar Sahay, Advocate Mr. Rakesh Kumar Mishra, Advocate ====================================================== CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE CHANDRA SHEKHAR JHA ORAL JUDGMENT Date: 08-02-2024. .. the present appeal stands allowed. The impugned judgment of conviction dated 12. 04. 2023 and order of sentence dated 18. 04. 2023 passed by learned 7th Additional District & Sessions Judge-cum-Exclusive Special Judge (POCSO), Sasaram, Bihar in connection with POCSO Case No. 13/2019 arising out of Natwar P. S. Case No. 16 of 2019 is quashed and set aside. The appellant/convict is acquitted of the charges levelled against him. He is directed to be set at liberty forthwith unless his detention is required in any other case.

[case 428]
State By Hebbal Police vs Puneeth on 22 December, 2015. IN THE COURT OF THE LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE AT BANGALORE CITY. Present: SMT. VIJAYALAXMI S. UPANAL, M. A. , LL. M. , LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE, BANGALORE CITY. Spl. C. C. No. 463/2014 COMPLAINANT State by Hebbal Police, Bangalore City. (By Learned Public Prosecutor) -Vs - ACCUSED Puneeth, S/o. Late Umesh, 22yrs, R/at. 3rd Cross, B-Narayanapura, Mahadevapura, Bangalore-48. (By Sri. T. D-Advocate. ) 1. Date of commission of offence 15-07-2014 2. Date of report of occurrence 24-07-2014 3. Date of arrest of Accused 26-07-2014 Date of release of Accused 27-12-2014 Period undergone in custody by Accused 05 months & 1 day. 4. Date of commencement of evidence 10-06-2015 5. Date of closing of evidence 18-09-2015 6. Name of the complainant Shashikala 7. Offences complained of Sections 366-A, 376 of IPC & Section 5(l) r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act-2012. 8. Opinion of the Judge Accused found not guilty. 9. Order of sentence As per the final order. The case reflects serious implications regarding how child victims' narratives are processed in court. The judge's decision indicates that victim testimonies need to be critically viewed in light of all aspects of their experiences and background influences while forming perspectives in legal contexts. There is a critical need for courts to recognize the nuances of a childs psychological state when evaluating testimonies.

[case 429]
State vs. Sadre Alam on 8 January, 2018. In brief, the case of the prosecution is that on 30. 11. 2014 a complaint was made by Sh. Nasriuddin son of late of Sh. Moonsarim Miya that he resides in house no. RZ-C-205, Gali No. 6, Jai Vihar Colony, Najafgarh, New Delhi. He has two daughters and two sons, who are living with him at the abovesaid address and his wife had gone to her parental house for treatment. His youngest son MA (hereinafter referred to as child victim) aged 7 years studies in 2 nd class. Near his house lives Sh. Aulahid with his family and his elder son Sadre Alalm (accused) aged 24 years drives a private tempo. Both the families have a very cordial relation and child victim used to visit the house of Aulahid for the purpose of watching TV etc. On 29. 11. 2014 the father of child victim received a call from his wife who told him that Sadre Alam was doing wrong things with child victim. The complainant enquired from his child victim, who told him that accused Sadre Alam used to call him at his house and showed him obscene films and also put his penis in his mouth and asked him to suck it. The child victim further told to the complainant that accused threatened him not to disclose the said things to anyone. The complainant enquired about the incident from his daughter and came to know that one day before the accused did the wrong thing with the child victim. On this complaint the present case was registered.

[case 430]
The present petition has been filed seeking quashment of the impugned order dated 25. 11. 2018 passed by the 1st respondent and a direction to the 1st respondent to the de-seal the premises of the petitioner. It is the case of the petitioner that 47 girl children were studying in the petitioner home, due to poor infrastructural facilities, the District Child Protection Officer, had shifted those children to reception home. On coming to know that said children were sexually abused by the petitioner and his wife, the FIR under POCSO Act, 2012 came to be registered against the petitioner and his wife, pursuant to which, they were imprisoned and after suffering a period of incarceration of about 205 days, they were released on bail. Subsequently, the petitioner's premises was sealed by the concerned authority, against which the Writ Petition was filed before this Court, for de-sealing the premises, and the same was allowed. Thereafter, the petitioner had filed a Writ Petition in W. P. No. 29132 of 2019, in which an interim order was passed to de-seal the premises. Failure, in compliance of the same resulted in filing of contempt petition against the respondents, at which time, it was brought to the notice of this Court that the impugned dated 25. 11. 2018 had been passed by the 1st respondent, sealing the petitioner's premises, against which, the present petition has been filed seeking the relief of quashment of the same.

[case 431]
In the case 'Shailendra Yadav @ Shalendra Yadav vs The State Of Bihar', several juveniles are involved who have been accused of committing serious offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the POCSO Act. The main issue is the rejection of bail applications submitted by the Children in Conflict with Law (CICL) at the Juvenile Justice Board and various Children's Courts across Bihar. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, emphasizes the presumption of innocence for minors and states that bail should generally be granted unless specific criteria justify denial. The failure of the courts to provide subjective reasoning for rejecting bail requests and the use of social investigation reports may impact the future judicial treatment of minors implicated in serious crimes. Under Section 12 of the Act, a child should be released on bail unless it is shown that their release would likely lead to exposure to known criminals, moral danger, or defeat the ends of justice. The court also highlighted that the gravity of the offence cannot solely dictate the decision regarding bail. In this case, the court decided to overturn the previous bail denials and grant bail to the CICLs on various conditions, reminding the judicial system of the obligation to ensure the best interests of the child are prioritized rather than punishing them based on the severity of their alleged crimes.

[case 432]
THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 12. 04. 2017 CORAM: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. NAGAMUTHU and THE HONOURABLE DR. JUSTICE ANITA SUMANTH Habeas Corpus Petition No. 1573 of 2016 Sivashankari. . Petitioner - Vs - 1. The Superintendent of Police, O/o the Superintendent, Nagapattinam Post and District. 2. The Deputy Superintend of Police, O/o. The Deputy Superintendent of Police, Koorainadu Post, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam District. 3. The Inspector of Police, Mayiladuthurai Police Station, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam District. 4. Vimal Raj 5. Mrs. Revathi 6. Mr. Mathialagan, Regional Officer, Central Board of Film Certification, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, Chennai. 7. The Secretary to Government, Information and Public Relations Department, Secretariat, Chennai 9. 8. The Secretary to Government, Home Department, Fort St. George, Chennai 9. .. Respondents (RR 5 to 8 were impleaded as per the Orders of this Court dated 28. 11. 2016, 27. 03. 2017, 10. 04. 2017 and 11. 04. 2017 respectively) Prayer: - Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Habeas Corpus to the respondents to produce the body of the petitioner's daughter namely Santhiya aged about 17 years, who is a student of 12th standard studying in ARC Higher Secondary School, Chittarkadu, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam district before this Court and set her at liberty. [. .. ].

[case 433]
THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 12. 04. 2017 CORAM: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. NAGAMUTHU and THE HONOURABLE DR. JUSTICE ANITA SUMANTH Habeas Corpus Petition No. 1573 of 2016 Sivashankari. . Petitioner - Vs - 1. The Superintendent of Police, O/o the Superintendent, Nagapattinam Post and District. 2. The Deputy Superintend of Police, O/o. The Deputy Superintendent of Police, Koorainadu Post, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam District. 3. The Inspector of Police, Mayiladuthurai Police Station, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam District. 4. Vimal Raj 5. Mrs. Revathi 6. Mr. Mathialagan, Regional Officer, Central Board of Film Certification, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, Chennai. 7. The Secretary to Government, Information and Public Relations Department, Secretariat, Chennai - 9. 8. The Secretary to Government, Home Department, Fort St. George, Chennai - 9. .. Respondents (RR 5 to 8 were impleaded as per the Orders of this Court dated 28. 11. 2016, 27. 03. 2017, 10. 04. 2017 and 11. 04. 2017 respectively) Prayer: - Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Habeas Corpus to the respondents to produce the body of the petitioner's daughter namely Santhiya aged about 17 years, who is a student of 12th standard studying in ARC Higher Secondary School, Chittarkadu, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam district before this Court and set her at liberty.

[case 434]
The petitioner is the 7th accused in Crime no. 54/2020 of Chevayur Police Station, Kozhikode, now pending before the IInd Additional Sessions Court, Kozhikode as S. C. No. 860/2022. The petitioner seeks quashment of the said crime, as also, all further proceedings therefrom, on the premise that the offence alleged under Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (for short, 'J. J. Act') will not lie in the given facts and circumstances. The prosecution allegations are as follows: One Ajin, aged 6 years, who was an inmate of the Home for Mentally Deficient Children (HMDC) at Vellimadukunnu, Kozhikode, urinated while sleeping. Infuriated by the same, certain other inmates (accused nos. 1 to 4) have assaulted the said Ajin and he succumbed to death. Accused nos. 5 and 6 are the Multi Task Care Providers of the said institution, who permitted children who have attained majority to stay along with the minor children, contrary to specific instructions in this regard. The specific allegation against petitioner/A7 is that he has committed supervisory lapse in permitting major inmates to stay along with the minors. The learned Public Prosecutor would point out that, it was on account of the willful neglect of petitioner/A7 that the victim Ajin had to face the extreme fate of death, at the hands of accused nos. 1 to 4, among whom, one has attained majority at the time of incident.

[case 435]
Imran Shamim Khan vs The State Of Maharashtra on 22 January, 2019. The appellant herein is convicted for the offence punishable under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and is sentenced to suffer R. I. for 10 years and to pay fine of Rs. 2000/- in default to suffer S. I. for 15 days. The appellant is also convicted for the offence punishable under section 506(II) of the Indian Penal Code and is sentenced to suffer R. I. for 1 year and to pay fine of Rs. 500/- I. d. to suffer further S. I. for 7 days by the Special Judge under POCSO Act. The case of the prosecution that on 20/7/2013 one Mrs. Meena Fernandes lodged a complaint at the police station alleging therein that her grand-daughter i. e. victim studying in 3rd standard was residing with her and attending school. The victim refused to go home when her mother tried to take her from her grandmothers house, disclosing that she had been sexually assaulted by Imran, living nearby. After a charge-sheet was filed and the case committed to Special Court, several witnesses were examined. Despite the victim's unsettling testimony during trial and attempts to resile her earlier statements, the court found ample evidence to uphold the conviction under the POCSO Act emphasizing that the crime was against society. The judicial proceedings emphasized that the best interest of the child must be prioritized as per the POCSO Act.

[case 436]
Thoukhirkhan Jamerkhan Haji vs State Of Karnataka on 14 February, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA, DHARWAD BENCH. DATED THIS THE 14TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2025 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE HEMANT CHANDANGOUDAR. THIS CRIMINAL PETITION IS FILED U/SEC. 482 OF CR. P. C. PLEASED TO QUASH THE ENTIRE PROCEEDINGS AGAINST THE PETITIONERS/ACCUSED NO. 1 TO 9 IN HIREKERUR P. S CR. NO. 175/2022 FOR THE ALLEGED OFFENCES U/SEC. 498A, 323, 504, 506, 109, R/W 34 OF IPC AND U/SE 3 AND 4 OF DOWRY PROHIBITION ACT. Respondent No. 2 lodged the FIR, alleging that her marriage with Accused No. 1 was solemnized on 23. 12. 2018. She claims that Accused No. 1 would return home late at night, pick quarrels, abuse, and assault her. On 10. 11. 2021, while she was three months pregnant, Accused No. 1 allegedly abused her in filthy language, kicked her, and dashed her head against the wall. Upon informing her parents, she was taken to her parental home. The petitioners have submitted a notice dated 29. 11. 2021, issuing to Respondent No. 2, asking her to resume conjugal rights. However, the FIR was lodged on 14. 09. 2022, nearly ten months after the alleged incident, with no plausible explanation for the delay. The complaint appears to have been filed with a revengeful intent. In the absence of specific allegations against the petitioners, merely proceeding on the basis of general allegations would amount to an abuse of the process of law.

[case 437]
State By Hebbal Police vs Puneeth on 22 December, 2015. IN THE COURT OF THE LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE AT BANGALORE CITY. Present: SMT. VIJAYALAXMI S. UPANAL, M. A. , LL. M. , LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE, BANGALORE CITY. Spl. C. C. No. 463/2014 COMPLAINANT State by Hebbal Police, Bangalore City. (By Learned Public Prosecutor) -Vs - ACCUSED Puneeth, S/o. Late Umesh, 22yrs, R/at. 3rd Cross, B-Narayanapura, Mahadevapura, Bangalore-48. (By Sri. T. D-Advocate. ) 1. Date of commission of offence 15-07-2014 2. Date of report of occurrence 24-07-2014 3. Date of arrest of Accused 26-07-2014 Date of release of Accused 27-12-2014 Period undergone in custody by Accused 05 months & 1 day. 4. Date of commencement of evidence 10-06-2015 5. Date of closing of evidence 18-09-2015 6. Name of the complainant Shashikala 7. Offences complained of Sections 366-A, 376 of IPC & Section 5(l) r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act-2012. 8. Opinion of the Judge Accused found not guilty. 9. Order of sentence As per the final order. The courts reasoning indicates that the complexity of the case was compounded by inconsistent testimonies from witnesses, particularly from the victim herself. This situation highlights the importance of providing pre-trial support to child victims, including preparation and counseling before their testimonies to improve the consistency and reliability of their statements during the trial phase.

[case 438]
State By Hebbal Police vs Puneeth on 22 December, 2015. IN THE COURT OF THE LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE AT BANGALORE CITY. Present: SMT. VIJAYALAXMI S. UPANAL, M. A. , LL. M. , LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE, BANGALORE CITY. Spl. C. C. No. 463/2014 COMPLAINANT State by Hebbal Police, Bangalore City. (By Learned Public Prosecutor) -Vs - ACCUSED Puneeth, S/o. Late Umesh, 22yrs, R/at. 3rd Cross, B-Narayanapura, Mahadevapura, Bangalore-48. (By Sri. T. D-Advocate. ) 1. Date of commission of offence 15-07-2014 2. Date of report of occurrence 24-07-2014 3. Date of arrest of Accused 26-07-2014 Date of release of Accused 27-12-2014 Period undergone in custody by Accused 05 months & 1 day. 4. Date of commencement of evidence 10-06-2015 5. Date of closing of evidence 18-09-2015 6. Name of the complainant Shashikala 7. Offences complained of Sections 366-A, 376 of IPC & Section 5(l) r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act-2012. 8. Opinion of the Judge Accused found not guilty. 9. Order of sentence As per the final order. The judge's conclusion amidst the backdrop of complex dynamics surrounding consent in underage individuals raises significant questions regarding the legal definitions of consent and the maturity of minors. This highlights the need for educational initiatives surrounding the legal age for consent and understanding the implications of relationship dynamics among minors to prevent future incidents.

[case 439]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL MISCELLANEOUS No. 78541 of 2024 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -63 Year-2024 Thana- Cyber P. S. District- Sitamarhi Sidhant Kumar S/O Kumar Shankar Resident Of Village - Bahera Jahidpur, P. S -Nanpur, District Sitamarhi. .. Petitioner/s Versus 1. The State of Bihar 2. Birendra Kumar Singh, Addl. S. H. O, Cyber Police Station, Dist. - Sitamarhi. Bihar. .. Appearance: For the Petitioner/s: Mr. Ashhar Mustafa, Advocate Ms. Anita Kumari, Advocate For the Opposite Party/s: Mr. Jitendra Kumar Singh, APP. .. CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ASHOK KUMAR PANDEY ORAL ORDER 3 27-01-2025 Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and Mr. Jitendra Kumar Singh, learned APP for the State. 2. The petitioner has prayed for regular bail in a case registered for the offence punishable under sections 74, 75 of the BNS; Sections 67, 67B of IT Act and Sections 14 and 15 of POCSO Act. .. The case of the prosecution is that Birendra Kumar Singh posted at Cyber P. S. , Sitamarhi has received a letter of Government and in that he has received a mobile number from which sexual exploitation and child pornography is uploaded on social sites. .. Learned APP appearing for the state has opposed the prayer of regular bail. .. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and considering the facts and circumstances of the case, this court is inclined to enlarge the petitioner on bail. ..

[case 440]
Imran Shamim Khan vs The State Of Maharashtra on 22 January, 2019. The appellant herein is convicted for the offence punishable under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and is sentenced to suffer R. I. for 10 years and to pay fine of Rs. 2000/- in default to suffer S. I. for 15 days. The appellant is also convicted for the offence punishable under section 506(II) of the Indian Penal Code and is sentenced to suffer R. I. for 1 year and to pay fine of Rs. 500/- I. d. to suffer further S. I. for 7 days by the Special Judge under POCSO Act. The case of the prosecution that on 20/7/2013, one Mrs. Meena Fernandes lodged a complaint at the police station alleging therein that her grand-daughter i. e. victim studying in 3rd standard was residing with her and attending school. The victim refused to go home when her mother tried to take her from her grandmother's house, disclosing that she had been sexually assaulted by Imran, living nearby. After a charge-sheet was filed and the case was committed to Special Court reflecting the victim's testimony despite attempts to turn hostile, the conviction was upheld as the crime was against society. Judicial proceedings highlighted the importance of addressing issues regarding family influence on victim testimony and reinforced the POCSO Act's emphasis on child safety and supporting minor victims throughout legal proceedings.

[case 441]
Aggrieved over the judgment of acquittal passed by the learned Special Judge under POCSO Act dated 25. 04. 2019 in S. C. No. 340 of 2017.
Originally, the appellant/Police has registered a case against the respondent in Crime No. 2 of 2016 for the offence punishable under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 [hereinafter called as "POCSO Act"] and Section 506(ii) of IPC. After investigation, they laid a charge sheet against the respondent before the learned Sessions Judge, Mahila Court/Special Court for Cases Under the POCSO Act/Children's Court, Chennai, since the offence charged against the respondent was against woman, especially a child falls under the POCSO Act. The learned Sessions Judge, had taken cognizance of the charge sheet in S. C. No. 340 of 2017 and framed the charge against the respondent.
In order to prove the case of the prosecution, on the side of the prosecution, as many as 8 witnesses were examined as P. Ws. 1 to 8 and marked 12 documents as Exs. P1 to 12. After completion of examination of prosecution witnesses, when incriminating circumstances culled from the evidence of prosecution witnesses were put before the accused by questioning under Section 313 Cr. P. C. , he denied the same as false and pleaded not guilty. On the side of the defence, no one was examined and no document was marked.

[case 442]
Criminal Original Petition filed under Section 482 Cr. P. C. seeking to quash the proceedings in D. V. C. No. 74 of 2022 on the file of the Additional Mahila Court, Thiruvallur, Thiruvallur District, against the petitioners.
This Full Bench has been constituted under the orders of the Honble Chief Justice on a reference made by our learned brother Justice N. Sathish Kumar to answer the following questions:
- Whether a proceeding under Section 12 of the D. V. Act can be challenged under Article 227 of the Constitution or under Section 482 of Cr. P. C?
- Whether the aforesaid remedy is available to an aggrieved person before approaching the learned Magistrate and, if necessary, the Court of Sessions by way of an appeal under Section 29 of the D. V. Act? The D. V. Act was enacted with the avowed purpose of providing more effective protection of the rights of women, who are victims of violence of any kind. Under the scheme of the said Act, an aggrieved person or a Protection Officer may present an application before the Magistrate. The various reliefs that can be granted are civil in nature, with clearly defined procedures and remedies available under the Act, emphasizing speedy and effective redress for domestic violence victims.

[case 443]
Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan vs State Of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. .. . on 4 March, 2025. THE HIGH COURT OF ORISSA AT CUTTACK CRLMC No. 3850 of 2024 (In the matter of an application under Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarika Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ) Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan. .. .. .. Petitioner -Versus- State of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. Opposite Parties For the Petitioner: Mr. Amitav Tripathy, Advocate For the Opposite Parties: Mr. Bibekananda Nayak, Additional Government Advocate CORAM: THE HONOURABLE SHRI JUSTICE SIBO SANKAR MISHRA Date of Hearing: 18. 02. 2025: : Date of Judgment: 04. 03. 2025 S. S. Mishra, J. The petitioner has filed the present application under Section 528 of the BNSS, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. , 1973, seeking quashing of the criminal proceedings arising out of Nayagarh P. S. Case No. 60 of 2022 due to a situation where the victim no longer wishes to pursue the charges against the accused. This case brings to the light the question of how the legal system balances the rights of the victim against the necessity of prosecuting serious crimes, particularly in instances where the victim has matured into adulthood and has reconciled with the accused. What legal mechanisms exist to ensure that the interests of justice are served without undermining the protective measures intended for minors under the POCSO Act?

[case 444]
Shashi Bhushan Kumar @ Shashi Bhushan. .. vs The State Of Bihar on 4 April, 2024
These batch of Revisions are filed, challenging the orders passed by the Children's Court rejecting bail of the Child in Conflict with Law (hereinafter referred to as 'CICL'), who have been made accused in different criminal cases concerning heinous offences. For the purpose of proper adjudication of the case, it is appropriate to narrate the factual background in the following words: Reg. Cr. Revision No. 613 of 2023 In connection with Dumariya P. S. Case No. 51 of 2022, the petitioner was aged about 15 years 7 months 29 days. He has been in custody on and from 3rd of April, 2022 in connection with the above-named case which was registered under Sections 302, 376DA and 34 of the IPC and Sections 4, 6 and 17 of POCSO Act. The CICL prayed for bail before the Juvenile Justice Board (hereinafter referred to as 'JJB'), Gaya, which was rejected on 13th of February, 2023. Against the aforesaid order, the CICL through his respective father, filed an appeal under Section 101 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 before the Children's Court at Gaya. The Court of Appeal also rejected his prayer for bail. This repeated rejection indicates the complexity of the bail process for juveniles in serious cases, despite guidelines meant to protect their rights and presumption of innocence.

[case 445]
Shafeeque vs State Of Kerala on 17 January, 2017. The petitioner is running a hollow bricks manufacturing unit. On 17. 06. 2011 at about 12. 40 p. m. , the Assistant Sub Inspector of Police, Aryanad Police Station inspected the premises of the brick manufacturing unit. He found three boys under the age of 18 years working in the unit. They were found mixing cement with gravel and sand. Out of the three boys, two were from West Bengal. The third boy was questioned and he revealed that one of the boy was aged 18 years and the other was 16 years of age. They were working in the Hollow bricks manufacturing unit for the last three months and they were being given a sum of Rs. 150/- per day towards wages. A mahazar was prepared and later a crime was registered against the employer under Section 26 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000. Investigation was conducted and final report was laid before the jurisdictional Court. The Case is now pending on the files of the Additional Sessions Court, Thiruvananthapuram as S. C. No. 779 of 2013. The said proceedings are sought to be quashed in this petition filed under section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Section 26 of the Juvenile Justice Act states that whoever procures a juvenile or child for hazardous employment and withholds their earnings shall be punishable with imprisonment of up to three years and a fine.

[case 446]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 723 OF 2018 Satpalsingh Jogendarsingh Kotda. . Appellant Versus The State of Maharashtra. . Respondent. Being aggrieved by the judgment passed by the Special Court for Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO Act') in Case no. 819 of 2013, thereby convicting the appellant for the offences punishable under Section 377 IPC read with Section 6 and 10 of the POCSO Act, and sentencing him to suffer RI for 10 years and to pay fine of sum of Rs. 25, 000/-, in default to undergo RI for further six months, the appellant has instituted the present Appeal. The prosecution case can be briefly summarized as under: - On 28th March 2013, a complaint came to be lodged by PW No. 1 in the Antop Hill Police Station, stating therein that he is residing on the given address with his wife and three children, which include the victim boy, who at the relevant day was aged three years and at this tender age, he faced a wild rage. On 27th March 2013, the complainant returned home at 10. 00 p. m and offered money to his daughter and the victim boy for buying chocolates. When his daughter (PW 2), aged 8 years returned home, but the victim did not, he inquired, and was informed that he is with the accused who was residing in the neighbourhood on being called for offering chocolates.

[case 447]
Naveen Naier vs State Of U. P. on 19 January, 2021. The instant anticipatory bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant, Naveen Naier, with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 597 of 2020, under Sections- 354A(3) IPC and Section 11, 12 of POCSO Act, Police Station- Shahganj, District- Agra, during pendency of trial. The applicant and the informant both are employed in Indian Air Force. The dispute took place between the children and then between the elders in a public park. Thereafter it is alleged that the applicant showed an obscene mobile clip to the minor daughter of the informant. Learn ed AGA has opposed the prayer for anticipatory bail of the applicant. He has submitted that in view of the seriousness of the allegations made against the applicant, he is not entitled to grant of anticipatory bail. After considering the rival submissions this court finds that there is a case registered against the applicant. Personal liberty is a very precious fundamental right and it should be curtailed only when it becomes imperative. Hence without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case and considering the nature of accusations and antecedents of applicant, he is directed to be enlarged on anticipatory bail as per the Constitution Bench judgment of the Apex Court in the case of Sushila Aggarwal vs. State (NCT of Delhi)- 2020 SCC Online SC 98.

[case 448]
The petitioner is the 7th accused in Crime no. 54/2020 of Chevayur Police Station, Kozhikode, now pending before the IInd Additional Sessions Court, Kozhikode as S. C. No. 860/2022. The petitioner seeks quashment of the said crime, as also, all further proceedings therefrom, on the premise that the offence alleged under Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (for short, 'J. J. Act') will not lie in the given facts and circumstances. The prosecution allegations are as follows: One Ajin, aged 6 years, who was an inmate of the Home for Mentally Deficient Children (HMDC) at Vellimadukunnu, Kozhikode, urinated while sleeping. Infuriated by the same, certain other inmates (accused nos. 1 to 4) have assaulted the said Ajin and he succumbed to death. Accused nos. 5 and 6 are the Multi Task Care Providers of the said institution, who permitted children who have attained majority to stay along with the minor children, contrary to specific instructions in this regard. The specific allegation against petitioner/A7 is that he has committed supervisory lapse in permitting major inmates to stay along with the minors. The learned Counsel for the petitioner submits that, even going by the prosecution allegations, the only charge against the petitioner is with respect to supervisory lapse, which cannot attract the offence under Section 75 of the J. J. Act.

[case 449]
The petitioners, who are the accused in Crime No. 734 of 2017 of Kodungallur Police Station, Thrissur District, registered for the offences punishable under Sections 366A, 376 and 34 of Indian Penal Code and Section 4 read with Section 3, Section 6 read with Section 5 and Section 17 read with Section 16 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2002, have filed this application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to quash the FIR, the final report submitted by the Investigating Officer and its further proceedings now pending as S. C. No. 836 of 2020 before the 1st Additional District and Sessions Court, Thrissur. Briefly stated the facts as emerge from the records are that on 23. 03. 2017 at 12. 30 p. m. the petitioners/accused have procured the victim, who is aged only 17 years, from her lawful custody and took her forcibly to the rental house of the 2nd accused and the 1st accused committed rape on her. The 2nd accused, who is a child in conflict with law also abetted the 1st accused to commit rape on her after procuring her with the 1st accused and thereby they have committed the aforesaid offences. The learned counsel has contended that they have not committed any offence as alleged by the prosecution and now the entire matter has been settled between the parties and the victim does not intend to proceed with the case against the petitioners.

[case 450]
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / vs The State - Rep. By on 16 November, 2017
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
RESERVED ON: 25. 08. 2021
DELIVERED ON: 02. 09. 2021
CORAM: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. N. PRAKASH and THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE R. HEMALATHA
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / Appellant
The State - Rep. by The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Coimbatore(East), Coimbatore District. (Crime No. 19 of 2015). .. Complainant / Respondent
PRAYER: Criminal Appeal filed under Section 374 (2) of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 to set aside the Judgment dated 16. 11. 2017 of the Mahila Court, Coimbatore, passed in S. C. C. No. 15/2016, convicting and sentencing the appellant under Section 5 (l), (m), (n) and Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 to undergo imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- and in default, to undergo three months rigorous imprisonment.
The case of the prosecution as could be discerned from the evidence is as follows: The defacto complainant Nithya (PW1) is the wife of the appellant / accused Vishnubhaskar. .. The court emphasized the importance of protecting children, indicating that such offenses should not only result in punishment for the perpetrator but also provide mechanisms for victim recovery and community awareness in preventing future incidents.

[case 451]
The case was taken up by the Juvenile Justice Board, Thiruvallur in J. C. No. 21 of 2020. Totally, thirteen witnesses have been cited by the respondent police in the final report. Whileso, the Juvenile Justice Board, on the pleading of guilt by the petitioner, had ordered for his detention in Government Special Home, Chingleput for a period of three years under Section 18(1)(g) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, aggrieved against which, the present Criminal Revision Case has been filed by the petitioner. The sum and substance of the arguments of the learned counsel Mr. C. Venkatesan appearing for the petitioner is as under: i) The order passed by the Juvenile Justice Board is a non-speaking, cryptic order passed in a mechanical manner without following the procedure laid down by the Apex Court and various High Courts to be followed in the matter of juvenile cases. ii) The Juvenile Justice Act being a gender-neutral Act and the victim child is older than the petitioner/child in conflict with law viz. , the petitioner was only 15 years old and the victim girl was 17 years old at the relevant time, the Juvenile Justice Board ought to have taken into consideration the factual aspects and analysed the mental health status of the petitioner/child in conflict with law and that of the victim girl to arrive at a conclusion as to who the aggressor is.

[case 452]
K. Govindan vs State Of Kerala on 24 August, 2020 The sole accused in S. C. No. 840 of 2014 on the files of the First Additional Sessions Court, Kasaragod has come up in this appeal challenging his conviction and sentence in the said case. The accusation in the case is that from the year 2012, the accused has committed rape on the victim girl aged 12 years in a shed near her house at Adkathbayal Beach, thereby committing offences punishable under Sections 376(2)(f), 376(2)(i) and 376(2)(n) of the Indian Penal Code (the IPC) and Section 3 read with Section 4 and Section 7 read with Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (the POCSO Act). The prosecution examined 13 witnesses on its side as PWs. 1 to 13 and proved through them, nine documents as Exts. P1 to P9, among them, the Child Welfare Committee's involvement is crucial. The court, however, is unable to find the extent of assault to which the victim girl was subjected to by the accused. The materials on record disclose that it is a case where the victim girl had been sexually assaulted by the accused. However, without concrete evidence of specific dates or corroborative testimonies, the case's foundation comes into question. In the result, the conviction of the appellant is altered to one under Section 354 of IPC and the appellant is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for two years.

[case 453]
Kerala High Court Shareef @ Muhammed Shareef vs State Of Kerala on 8 November, 2018. This bail application is filed under Section 438 of the Cr. P. C. The applicant herein is the accused in Crime No. 200 of 2018 registered at the Vengara Police Station under Sections 354(iii), 509 of the IPC and Section 11(iii) and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The victim is a minor girl studying in the VIII Standard. The applicant herein is a friend of her father. On 4. 8. 2018, while she was returning home after playing in the fields, the applicant along with one Haneefa were found standing in front of her house. Her clothes were wet as she had taken a bath. It is alleged that the applicant made certain gestures and sexually coloured remarks at the girl. The victim also alleges that the applicant has made similar gestures in the past. The learned counsel for the applicant contends that the allegations are baseless, claiming the victim's father is a habitual offender and demanding money from the applicant, who refused to pay. They cite a previous case where the same victim had previously alleged penetrative sexual abuse against three persons, which had turned out to be false. The learned Public Prosecutor was heard, and prima facie, the situation seems to indicate the applicant might have been framed. Thus, anticipatory bail was granted with conditions.

[case 454]
The present revision has been filed against the Judgement and order dated 28. 01. 2021 passed by the Court of Additional/Special Judge (POCSO) Act, District Mainpuri in Criminal Appeal No. 17 of 2020 (Km, Sangeeta Vs. State of U. P. ), whereby appeal filed by the revisionist/minor has been dismissed confirming the bail rejection order dated 10. 12. 2020 passed by the Juvenile Justice Board, Mainpuri in Case Crime No. 83 of 2020 under Sections 302, 34 I. P. C. , Police Station Dannahar District Mainpuri. The revisionist is a 15 years old girl and that she has been falsely implicated in the instant case. It was submitted that in F. I. R. no specific role has been assigned to the revisionist and that she was falsely named in the F. I. R. along with her other family members. The revisionist was declared Juvenile and her bail application has been rejected. The grounds for rejection were based on the belief that her release would lead to moral, physical, or psychological danger. However, the opposing counsel could not demonstrate that any of the grounds for rejecting bail existed based on the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act. It was mentioned that gravity of the offence is not relevant in refusing bail and the court eventually overturned the bail rejection orders, allowing Sangeeta to be released under certain conditions.

[case 455]
Kaliappan vs State Rep. By Its on 3 August, 2021. The Petitioner is the accused in S. S. C. No. 4 of 2019 which is pending before the Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO), Act, 2012, at Salem, who had filed Crl. M. P. No. 189 of 2021, under Section 311 Cr. P. C. , to recall PW. 1, PW. 2, PW. 4, and PW. 9 for further examination and the same was dismissed on 29. 03. 2021 by the Trial Court. The contention of the petitioner is that he was charged for the offence under Section 10 read with 9(m) of the POCSO, Act, 2012 and Section 4 of Tamil Nadu Women Harassment Prevention Act. PW. 1 is the mother of the victim, PW2 is the victim, PW4 is the father of the victim and PW 9 is the Investigation Officer. Though these witnesses have been cross-examined, certain vital aspects of the matter were leftover during the cross-examination. The learned Government Advocate (crl. side) submitted that the petitioner is 72 years old man, who had committed the offence against a minor child, who was about 10 years at the time of occurrence and this had psychologically affected the child. All the witnesses examined and the case is posted for arguments. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, this Court is not inclined to interfere with the order passed by the trial court. Hence, the Criminal Original Petition is dismissed.

[case 456]
Karnataka High Court Akbar @ Akbar Basha vs The State Of Karnataka, on 27 August, 2020. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT DHARWAD BENCH DATED THIS THE 27TH DAY OF AUGUST, 2020 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE N. K. SUDHINDRARAO CRIMINAL APPEAL No. 100041/2017 C/W CRL. A. NOs. 100047/2017, 100078/2017, 100062/2017, 100175/2017, 100151/2017, 100344/2017 AND CRL. R. P No. 100206/2017 IN CRL. A. No. 100041/2017 BETWEEN: 1. AKBAR @ AKBAR BASHA S/O ABDUL SAB AGE 25 YEARS, OCC: AUTO DRIVER R/O. GOUTHAM NAGAR, DC NAGAR IN FRONT OF MASJIT BALLARI DIST: BALLARI. 2. HABEEB SAB, S/O ABBAS KHAN AGE: 32 YEARS, OCC: ELECTRICIAN R/O. D. C. NAGAR, BALLARI DIST: BALLARI. 3. S K SHEKSHAVALI S/O KHADER BASHA A K AGE: 28 YEARS, OCC; PAN SHOP R/O. OPP: MOULALI ZANDA KATTA DC NAGAR, BALLARI DIST: BALLARI. 4. SOORI @ M SURESH S/O KANTHEPPA AGED ABOUT 26 YEARS OCC: AUTO DRIVER R/O BEHIND SELECT TALIKIES CB. BALLARI, DIST: BALLARI. THIS CRIMINAL APPEAL IS FILED UNDER SECTION 374(2) OF CR. P. C. , PRAYING TO SET ASIDE THE ORDER OF CONVICTION, INCLUDING THE FINE IMPOSED BY THE HON'BLE 1ST ADDITIONAL DISTRICT AND SESSION JUDGE, BALLARI IN SESSION CASE No. 151 OF 2013 DATED 17. 01. 2017 PUNISHABLE UNDER SECTION 366, 366A, 366B, 368, 370, 370A, 372, 373 READ WITH 149 OF IPC AND UNDER SECTION 3 AND 4 OF PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCE ACT 2012 AND UNDER SECTION 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 AND 9 OF IMMORAL TRAFFIC PREVENTION ACT 1956.

[case 457]
State By Hebbal Police vs Puneeth on 22 December, 2015. IN THE COURT OF THE LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE AT BANGALORE CITY. Present: SMT. VIJAYALAXMI S. UPANAL, M. A. , LL. M. , LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE, BANGALORE CITY. Spl. C. C. No. 463/2014 COMPLAINANT State by Hebbal Police, Bangalore City. (By Learned Public Prosecutor) -Vs - ACCUSED Puneeth, S/o. Late Umesh, 22yrs, R/at. 3rd Cross, B-Narayanapura, Mahadevapura, Bangalore-48. (By Sri. T. D-Advocate. ) 1. Date of commission of offence 15-07-2014 2. Date of report of occurrence 24-07-2014 3. Date of arrest of Accused 26-07-2014 Date of release of Accused 27-12-2014 Period undergone in custody by Accused 05 months & 1 day. 4. Date of commencement of evidence 10-06-2015 5. Date of closing of evidence 18-09-2015 6. Name of the complainant Shashikala 7. Offences complained of Sections 366-A, 376 of IPC & Section 5(l) r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act-2012. 8. Opinion of the Judge Accused found not guilty. 9. Order of sentence As per the final order. The judgment reveals critical hardships in obtaining justice for minors through the legal system, emphasizing the importance of lobby systems and reforms aimed at providing better legal protection and support mechanisms for such victims. It calls for advocacy and reform initiatives that prioritize child rights, legal support, and holistic care for abuse victims.

[case 458]
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / vs The State - Rep. By on 16 November, 2017
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
RESERVED ON: 25. 08. 2021
DELIVERED ON: 02. 09. 2021
CORAM: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. N. PRAKASH and THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE R. HEMALATHA
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / Appellant
The State - Rep. by The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Coimbatore(East), Coimbatore District. (Crime No. 19 of 2015). .. Complainant / Respondent
PRAYER: Criminal Appeal filed under Section 374 (2) of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 to set aside the Judgment dated 16. 11. 2017 of the Mahila Court, Coimbatore, passed in S. C. C. No. 15/2016, convicting and sentencing the appellant under Section 5 (l), (m), (n) and Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 to undergo imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- and in default, to undergo three months rigorous imprisonment.
The case of the prosecution as could be discerned from the evidence is as follows: The defacto complainant Nithya (PW1) is the wife of the appellant / accused Vishnubhaskar. .. The court's responsibility extends beyond adjudicating guilt; it also encompasses reinforcing the protective measures for children through legal enhancements and community advocacy to foster safer environments for vulnerable children.

[case 459]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to call for the records and quash the charge sheet filed in Spl. S. C. No. 26 of 2020, on the file of the Special Judge, (Under POCSO Act, 2012), Pudhucherry. The case of the prosecution is that the defacto complainant had love affair with the first accused and thereafter, she became pregnant. After coming to know about the same, both parents warned them, but later, they agreed for their marriage. The defacto complainant went for checkup on 11. 12. 2019 and the doctor referred her to consult the Rajeev Gandhi Women's Hospital, Puducherry as she had low blood level and anemia. On 12. 12. 2019, after checkup, the defacto complainant got admitted in the hospital. The hospital authorities informed the respondent police that the defacto complainant who is under 18 years was admitted in the hospital for treatment and she was four months pregnant and her date of birth was 12. 01. 2002. Based on the same, FIR was registered in Crime No. 91 of 2019, on 13. 12. 2019. The defacto complainant has filed an affidavit on 02. 02. 2022, stating that their marriage was solemnized on 16. 12. 2019 and they are blessed with a male child and leading their matrimonial life happily. She further states that she is not interested to prosecute the case in Spl. S. C. No. 26 of 2020, on the file of the Special Judge, (Under POCSO Act, 2012), Pudhucherry.

[case 460]
Sri Vamshi @ Vamshi Krishna, vs The State Of Karnataka on 24 April, 2018. This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of Cr. P. C. praying to enlarge the petitioner on bail in Crime No. 130/2017 of Jagajeevanram Nagar Police Station, Bengaluru and in Spl. C. C. No. 343/2017 pending on the file of LIV Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge (CCH-55), sitting in the Child Friendly Court, Bengaluru Urban District for the offences punishable under Section 376 of IPC and Section 4, 6, 8 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The allegations made against the petitioner are that on 15. 05. 2017 at about 10. 00 p. m. , the petitioner took the complainant's daughter aged about 5 years to his house and sexually abused the child. The learned counsel for the petitioner argues by referring to the medical report that the doctor who examined the victim girl soon after lodging of the complaint gave a opinion that the victim girl is not used to the act of sexual intercourse and that he also did not find the signs of recent sexual activity. Then he refers to FSL report and argues that even this report has come negative. Hence the petitioner can be enlarged on bail. On the other hand the High Court Government Pleader submits that just because two witnesses have not supported the prosecution case, it cannot be said that the other witnesses do not support.

[case 461]
Parvati @ Alka W/O Mahadev Bhutewadkar vs Maruti S/O Irappa Vani on 20 February, 2024. The factual matrix of the prosecution case in brief is that Victim-P. W. 1 lodged a private complaint under Section 200 of Cr. P. C. against the accused, for the offences punishable under Sections 376, 506, 504 read with Section 34 and 109 of Indian Penal Code, before the learned JMFC III Court, Belgaum. It is further alleged that, out of the wedlock they begotten a male child namely, Heetesh in the year 2008. Further, accused No. 2 is working as a Manager/Supervisor under accused No. 1's Business. On 04th December 2007, accused No. 2 called the victim and asked her to come to Belgaum for a blood check up. When she went to Belgaum, she was received by accused No. 1, instead of accused No. 2. He took her to a room, in Hotel Adarsha Palace and committed sexual coitus on her, taking advantage of her being unconscious. When the same was revealed to accused No. 2, he threatened her and rejected to stay with her. Therefore, she lodged a private complaint on 04. 05. 2009, leading to the current case. The prosecution's main evidence was the testimony of the victim, which was inconsistent, and therefore resulted in the acquittal of both accused. This case raises critical questions about consent in sexual offenses and the processes for accessing justice for victims of such crimes.

[case 462]
V. John Prabhakar vs / on 7 November, 2022. The Petitioner has filed this Writ Petition seeking Writ of Mandamus directing the Respondents 1 and 2 to direct further / fresh / de-nova / re-investigation by some other investigation agency, such as, third respondent based on the Petitioners' application dated 25. 7. 2022. It is the submission of the learned Counsel for the Petitioner that the first Petitioner/John Prabakhar is the Administrative Manager of the Russ Foundation at Chatrapatti, Madurai. Meanwhile, there was dispute in the Child Welfare Committee regarding mismanagement of funds. The victim girl was admitted in the Russ Foundation. She has been diagnosed with symptoms suggesting possible sexual abuse. Dr. Kavitha had diagnosed the victim's condition further supporting claims of potential sexual abuse. The Petitioners argue that they are being unfairly targeted due to various disputes involving the Child Welfare Committee and the victim's mother. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor submitted statements from the victim indicating potential abuse by the Petitioners, leading to their arrest, and a case under the POCSO Act was initiated against them. On considering the orders passed by the learned trial Judge, this Court concluded that since there were ongoing proceedings, the Writ Petition seeking further investigation was unwarranted.

[case 463]
Sakthivel vs State By The Inspector Of Police on 9 March, 2021 - The case of the prosecution is that on 08. 04. 2018 at about 4. 30 p. m the appellant abducted the victim girl (P. W. 2) from her house to Tirupathi for the purpose of committing sexual assault. On the same day itself, he married the victim girl at Kiltirupathi. Thereafter, on 11. 04. 2018, the appellant took the victim girl to his friend's house situated at Avadanapatti Colony, Krishnagiri District and forcibly committed sexual assault with her. Subsequently, a complaint has been filed by (P. W. 1), who is the mother of the victim girl before the respondent police. Based on the complaint given by P. W. 1, the respondent police arrested the appellant and secured the victim girl. The respondent police registered a case in Crime No. 8 of 2018 for the offence punishable under Section 366(A) IPC later altered into Section 5(l) r/w 6 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 [hereafter 'POCSO Act' for the sake of convenience]. After investigation, the respondent police filed a charge sheet before the learned Sessions Judge, Fast Track Magalir Neethi Mandram, Krishnagiri, Krishnagiri District. Since the offence is against a girl child, it falls under the definition of POCSO Act, 2012 and the learned Sessions Judge taken cognizance of the charge sheet in Spl. S. C. No. 36 of 2018.

[case 464]
Vinod alias Dinesh vs State Of Himachal Pradesh on 23 June, 2016
IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA. Cr. Appeal No. 95 of 2016. This appeal is instituted against the judgment and order dated 15. 12. 2015 and 19. 12. 2015, respectively, rendered by the learned Special Judge, Shimla, H. P. in Sessions Trial No. 6-S/7 of 2014, whereby the appellant-accused (hereinafter referred to as the accused), was charged with and tried for offences punishable under Sections 376 (F) and 506 of IPC and Section 6 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as POCSO Act). The accused was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of fourteen years and to pay fine of Rs. 50, 000/- under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and in default of payment of fine he was ordered to further undergo simple imprisonment for a period of one year. The accused was also sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of six months for the offence punishable under Section 506 IPC. Both the sentences were ordered to run concurrently. The prosecutrix was also held entitled for a sum of Rs. 2, 00, 000/- as compensation in addition to the amount of Rs. 50, 000/- as awarded separately. The amount was ordered to be given to the prosecutrix out of the State Government's Victim Compensation Fund for the purpose of rehabilitation.

[case 465]
This petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India has been filed seeking the following reliefs: the respondents may be directed to terminate the pregnancy of the victim so the life of the victim may be saved. ; any other order which this Hon'ble court deems fit in favour of the petitioner. It is the case of the petitioner that the daughter of the petitioner is minor, aged about 16 years and she was subjected to rape as a result of which, Crime No. 25/2021 has been registered at Police Station Civil Lines, Datia for offence under Sections 363, 366-A, 376, 376(2)(n), 343, 120-B of IPC and under Section 5 (L)/6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act [in short '' POCSO Act'']. The report submitted by the Medical Board in a sealed cover is taken on record which reads as under: According to this report, the prosecutrix is carrying the pregnancy of 14 weeks and 2 days and the medical termination of her pregnancy is safe. This Court is dealing with the case of a child aged about 16 years, who is carrying a child of a person, against whom the allegations of rape have been made and a criminal case also has been registered. Not only this, the child will also have social stigma throughout her life and the girl, who is 16 years of age, has to deliver a child which will certainly result in life threat to the pregnant minor girl.

[case 466]
This application under Section 482 Cr. P. C. has been filed to quash the proceedings of Case Crime No. 834 of 2017, under Sections 363, 366 IPC read with Section 8 POCSO Act including charge -sheet dated 11. 08. 2018 as well as Non-bailable Warrants issued against the applicants on 12. 03. 2021. As per the averment made in the application, it appears that a First Information Report was lodged by father of the victim on 16. 11. 2017 as per which, the applicant no. 1 has enticed the daughter of the complainant, who was studying in class XI and therefore, prayer was made to register a report and take action in the matter. The First Information Report along with subsequent criminal proceedings have been challenged on the ground that the applicants have got their marriage solemnized in accordance with Hindu rites and the same is also registered with the Registrar of Marriages on 21. 11. 2017. It is also submitted that two male child have also born out of the wedlock and their birth certificate have also been annexed. A writ petition was also filed being Criminal Misc. Writ Petition No. 6182 of 2019 challenging the First Information Report, in which the Court granted protection to the applicants on 07. 03. 2019. Statement of the girl has been recorded under Sections 161 and 164 Cr. P. C. as per which she had married with the applicant on her own free will.

[case 467]
Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan vs State Of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. .. . on 4 March, 2025. THE HIGH COURT OF ORISSA AT CUTTACK CRLMC No. 3850 of 2024 (In the matter of an application under Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarika Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ) Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan. .. .. .. Petitioner -Versus- State of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. Opposite Parties For the Petitioner: Mr. Amitav Tripathy, Advocate For the Opposite Parties: Mr. Bibekananda Nayak, Additional Government Advocate CORAM: THE HONOURABLE SHRI JUSTICE SIBO SANKAR MISHRA Date of Hearing: 18. 02. 2025: : Date of Judgment: 04. 03. 2025 S. S. Mishra, J. The petitioner has filed the present application under Section 528 of the BNSS, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. , 1973, seeking quashing of the criminal proceedings arising out of Nayagarh P. S. Case No. 60 of 2022, where serious allegations were made against him, including the kidnapping of a minor and robbery. This case raises significant questions about the legal boundaries concerning juvenile legal matters, particularly how the courts reconcile the intention behind protective laws designed for minors and situations where reconciliation occurs post allege offenses. What are the possible legal responses when a victim chooses not to pursue charges and seeks to marry the accused?

[case 468]
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / vs The State - Rep. By on 16 November, 2017
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
RESERVED ON: 25. 08. 2021
DELIVERED ON: 02. 09. 2021
CORAM: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. N. PRAKASH and THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE R. HEMALATHA
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / Appellant
The State - Rep. by The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Coimbatore(East), Coimbatore District. (Crime No. 19 of 2015). .. Complainant / Respondent
PRAYER: Criminal Appeal filed under Section 374 (2) of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 to set aside the Judgment dated 16. 11. 2017 of the Mahila Court, Coimbatore, passed in S. C. C. No. 15/2016, convicting and sentencing the appellant under Section 5 (l), (m), (n) and Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 to undergo imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- and in default, to undergo three months rigorous imprisonment.
The case of the prosecution as could be discerned from the evidence is as follows: The defacto complainant Nithya (PW1) is the wife of the appellant / accused Vishnubhaskar. .. The realization that children must be provided utmost protection under law should guide the reforms in the judicial system, ensuring that survivors receive not just justice, but also the necessary support to heal.

[case 469]
Mahalingam @ Customs Mahalingam vs The State Rep. By Its on 11 January, 2022. This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the impugned proceedings as far as the petitioner is concerned. The case of the prosecution is that the victim fell in love with the first accused Manikandan @ Rajesh. The victim left her house on 07. 12. 2020 and joined the first accused. She was taken to another village and marriage was also performed on 08. 12. 20220 in the presence of the parents of the main accused as well as the other persons. The main accused is said to have had physical intimacy with the victim. The only allegation against the petitioner is that subsequent thereto, he had given some cash to A1 and the victim and advised them to stay away as otherwise they will be caught by the police. The victim's father is the defacto complainant in Crime No. 1452 of 2020 on the file of the Inspector of Police, Thuraiyur Police Station. The case was investigated and charge sheet was filed and cognizance of the offences under Sections 366(A) & 366 of IPC and Sections 9 & 10 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 and Sections 5(1), 6 & 17 of Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 were taken. The case is presently pending trial in Special S. C. No. 45 of 2021 on the file of the District and Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Tiruchirappalli.

[case 470]
Chattisgarh High Court Guman Nishad vs State Of Chhattisgarh on 25 March, 2025 MCRC No. 1463 of 2025. The applicants have filed this bail application under Section 483 of the Bhartiya Nagrrik Suraksha Sanhita for grant of regular bail as they are in custody in connection with Crime No. 256/2024 registered at police station Mahasamund, District Mahasamund (CG) for the offence punishable under Sections 376(2)(n), 376(3), 506 Part-II/34 of IPC, Section 6 of the POCSO and Section 67 of the IT Act. Prosecution case in brief is that report was lodged against the applicants on 19. 05. 2024 alleging that the applicants took the prosecutrix to the doctor on 17. 05. 2024 as she was complaining of stomach ache and on examination, she was found pregnant. Thereafter on 18. 05. 2024, she was admitted at Aditya Hospital, Mahasamund for treatment. It is the case of prosecution that the applicant in M. Cr. C. No. 1463/2025 were having love affair and on 21. 01. 2024 they developed physical relations and the co-accused persons helped the applicant in the said offence. Based on the said report two more Crime Nos. were registered against two different persons namely Rajendra Sahu and Tulsi Sahu (Cr. Nos. 257/2024 and 258/2024) respectively. On the basis of the said report, the police registered the offence against the accused persons and they were arrested.

[case 471]
Mrs. Sakthi Priya vs Mr. Ashok Kumar on 28 November, 2024. This Transfer Civil Miscellaneous Petition has been filed for transfer of the case pending before the Family Court, Dindigul in H. M. O. P. No. 199 of 2024 to the file of Principal Family Court, Chennai. It is the case of the petitioner / wife that her marriage with the respondent was solemnized on 23. 11. 2017 and out of the wedlock, a female child was born on 31. 07. 2018. It is further case of the petitioner that she was diagnosed with Tuberculosis and the mother of the respondent prevented him spending money for her medical treatment. Subsequently, she was driven away from the matrimonial home and was abused in front of the public, which had resulted in lodging a complaint before All Women Police Station, Thiruporur, Kanchipuram in CSR No. 60 of 2019 on 02. 03. 2019. It is further case of the petitioner that she had filed a Maintenance Case in M. C. No. 309 of 2019 before the V Additional Family Court, Chennai, in which, the respondent herein was directed to pay a monthly maintenance of Rs. 10, 000/- each to the petitioner and her child. It is now alleged that the child has forcibly been abducted from her custody and the respondent also filed a case for divorce before the Family Court, Dindigul. As the petitioner has been residing in Chennai, she seeks transfer of the case to Chennai.

[case 472]
The appellant Manoj Tyagi @ Monu vide the present appeal assails the impugned judgment dated 25. 07. 2018 and the impugned order on sentence dated 27. 07. 2018 of the learned ASJ-01, Judge, Special Court POCSO, KKD, Delhi vide which the appellant in relation to the charges framed against him qua the alleged commission of an offence punishable under Section 10 of the POCSO Act, 2012 with an alternative charge of the commission of the offence punishable under Section 367 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 was held guilty and convicted for the offence punishable under Section 367 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Section 10 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and was sentenced to undergo the minimum Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of five years for the offence punishable under Section10 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and to pay a fine of Rs. 3, 000/- and in case of non-payment of the fine, to further undergo Simple Imprisonment for a period of 15 days in default with the appellant having also been sentenced to undergo minimum Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of five years for the offence punishable under Section 367 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and to pay a fine of Rs. 3, 000/- and in case of non-payment of the fine, to further undergo Simple Imprisonment for a period of 15 days in default with all the sentences having been directed to run concurrently.

[case 473]
In the matter of:  SC No. : 62/02/13 FIR No. : 127/13 Police Station: Dwarka South Case ID No. : 02405R0233062013 Under Section: u/s 342/34 & U/s 323/34, U/s 109 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and U/s 4 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 28. 04. 2013, an information was received in P. S Dwarka South regarding quarrel taking place between some ladies. The said information was recorded vide DD no. 15 PP and was marked to HC Satbir Singh. Thereafter HC Satbir Singh reached at the spot where he met the child victim. The child victim gave a written complaint alleging that her aunt had beaten her up and abused her and had taken her mobile phone away. She also alleged that her uncle and another relative had committed rape upon her. Based on her complaint, FIR no. 127/13 was registered. Investigations revealed that the child scheduled an independent statement declaring that she made false allegations at the urging of another individual. During trial, despite her denials, the court ruled that the prosecution was unable to substantiate charges against the accused, and thus, decided to acquit them. This conclusion affirms an absence of criminal evidence proven in favor of the prosecution, leading to the dismissal of the case with respect to allegations of sexual offenses.

[case 474]
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / vs The State - Rep. By on 16 November, 2017
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
RESERVED ON: 25. 08. 2021
DELIVERED ON: 02. 09. 2021
CORAM: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. N. PRAKASH and THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE R. HEMALATHA
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / Appellant
The State - Rep. by The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Coimbatore(East), Coimbatore District. (Crime No. 19 of 2015). .. Complainant / Respondent
PRAYER: Criminal Appeal filed under Section 374 (2) of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 to set aside the Judgment dated 16. 11. 2017 of the Mahila Court, Coimbatore, passed in S. C. C. No. 15/2016, convicting and sentencing the appellant under Section 5 (l), (m), (n) and Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 to undergo imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- and in default, to undergo three months rigorous imprisonment.
The case of the prosecution as could be discerned from the evidence is as follows: The defacto complainant Nithya (PW1) is the wife of the appellant / accused Vishnubhaskar. .. This conviction highlights the importance of the judicial systems role in ensuring justice not only for the victim but also in upholding laws designed to protect children from potential exploitation.

[case 475]
Archana Shamkumar Adhav vs The State Of Maharashtra And Another on 8 October, 2021. The petitioner is the natural mother of the minor girl Juhi, who is at present 11 years of age. The petitioner had initiated a divorce proceedings bearing petition No. A-407 of 2015 under section 13 (1)(i-a) (i-b) of the Hindu Marriage Act against the husband. The husband also preferred a petition for restitution of conjugal rights bearing petition No. A-489 of 2015. The husband has also fled another petition seeking custody of the minor daughter Juhi before the Family Court by petition no. D-004 of 2015. In February, 2021 Juhi made serious allegations against her father while visiting her school about inappropriate touching and sexual abuse. The petitioner lodged a complaint that led to the registration of a crime against the husband under the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The Child Welfare Committee, Aurangabad did not pass any order regarding the custody, leading the petitioner to approach the Special Court but was informed that it had no jurisdiction. Ultimately, the Family Court also declared it had no jurisdiction, leaving the petitioner without a remedy. The petitioner is concerned about her daughters health, particularly epilepsy attacks, and is seeking her custody as the child currently resides in a facility.

[case 476]
State By Madiwala Police vs Usman Khadri on 25 November, 2016
IN THE COURT OF THE LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE AT BANGALORE CITY (CCH-55)
Dated this the 24th day of November 2016
Present: SMT. RAJESHWARI. N. HEGDE, B. COM. LL. B[SPL. ]
LIV ADDL. , CITY CIVIL & SESSIONS JUDGE,
Spl. C. C. No. 88/2013
COMPLAINANT State by Madiwala Police,
Bangalore City. (By Learned Public Prosecutor)
ACCUSED Usman Khadri,
No. 310, Ambedkarnagar,
The prosecution case briefly stated: That on 8. 3. 2013 at about 5-A. M. , when the complainant- CW1 had gone to the household work, the accused and the victim boy were in the house. The accused being the 2nd husband of the complainant, bolted the doors of the house and asked the victim boy to remove his clothes and the accused also removed his clothes and tried to commit sexual assault on the victim boy, against to the nature and threatened the victim boy to kill him and his mother. Hence, the complaint was lodged. After a trial, the accused was found guilty under Sec. 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 and under Sec. 506 of IPC, being punished with 3 years imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 1, 000/- for the offence under Sec. 8 of POCSO Act. The accused was acquitted under Sec. 377 r/w Sec. 511 of IPC due to insufficient evidence for penetration.

[case 477]
Imran Shamim Khan vs The State Of Maharashtra on 22 January, 2019. The appellant herein is convicted for the offence punishable under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and is sentenced to suffer R. I. for 10 years and to pay fine of Rs. 2000/- in default to suffer S. I. for 15 days. The appellant is also convicted for the offence punishable under section 506(II) of the Indian Penal Code and is sentenced to suffer R. I. for 1 year and to pay fine of Rs. 500/- I. d. to suffer further S. I. for 7 days by the Special Judge under POCSO Act. The case of the prosecution that on 20/7/2013, one Mrs. Meena Fernandes lodged a complaint at the police station alleging therein that her grand-daughter i. e. victim studying in 3rd standard was residing with her and attending school. The victim refused to go home when her mother tried to take her from her grandmother's house, disclosing that she had been sexually assaulted by Imran, living nearby. After a charge-sheet was filed and the case was committed to Special Court reflecting the victim's testimony despite attempts to turn hostile, the conviction was upheld as the crime was against society. The judicial proceedings further emphasized the need to protect child witnesses and ensure their interests are taken into consideration as per the POCSO Act.

[case 478]
Chouthmal S/O Ramdev Meghwal B/C. .. vs State Of Rajasthan on 9 May, 2019. The applicant-appellant, Chouthmal, has filed a DB Criminal Misc. Suspension of Sentence Application No. 622/2019 in DB Criminal Appeal No. 91/2019 praying that sentence awarded by the Court of Special Judge, POCSO Act No. 5, Kota (Rajasthan) may be suspended during pendency of the appeal. The learned counsel for the appellant contended that the prosecutrix, in court, appeared as PW1 and stated that the accused had torn her underwear. No other allegations have been levelled by the prosecutrix. A perusal of record reveals that the prosecutrix at the time of occurrence was aged 8 years. It is a case of sexual exploitation of a child. Hence, we are not inclined to suspend the sentence of the applicant-appellant at this juncture. The applicant-appellant was tried by the Court of Special Judge, POCSO Act No. 5, Kota, and was sentenced under various sections of IPC and POCSO Act. Considering certain evidences, including medical reports, it was found that the child was sexually abused, and the appeal concluded with the decision to uphold conviction and modify the sentence. It directed the secretary of Rajasthan State Legal Services Authority to ensure that compensation is paid to the victim through her mother, without disclosing the victim's identity.

[case 479]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL MISCELLANEOUS No. 78541 of 2024 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -63 Year-2024 Thana- Cyber P. S. District- Sitamarhi Sidhant Kumar S/O Kumar Shankar Resident Of Village - Bahera Jahidpur, P. S -Nanpur, District Sitamarhi. .. Petitioner/s Versus 1. The State of Bihar 2. Birendra Kumar Singh, Addl. S. H. O, Cyber Police Station, Dist. - Sitamarhi. Bihar. .. Appearance: For the Petitioner/s: Mr. Ashhar Mustafa, Advocate Ms. Anita Kumari, Advocate For the Opposite Party/s: Mr. Jitendra Kumar Singh, APP. .. CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ASHOK KUMAR PANDEY ORAL ORDER 3 27-01-2025 Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and Mr. Jitendra Kumar Singh, learned APP for the State. 2. The petitioner has prayed for regular bail in a case registered for the offence punishable under sections 74, 75 of the BNS; Sections 67, 67B of IT Act and Sections 14 and 15 of POCSO Act. .. The case of the prosecution is that Birendra Kumar Singh posted at Cyber P. S. , Sitamarhi has received a letter of Government and in that he has received a mobile number from which sexual exploitation and child pornography is uploaded on social sites. .. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and considering the facts and circumstances of the case, this court is inclined to enlarge the petitioner on bail. ..

[case 480]
By means of the present bail application the applicant, who is facing prosecution in connection with S. S. T. No782 of 2020 arising out of Case Crime No. 01 of 2020, u/s 363, 366, 376(3) I. P. C. , Section 3/4(2) of POCSO Act and Section 3(2)(5) of SC/ST Act, P. S. -Sikandra, District-Kanpur Dehat, is seeking his enlargement on bail during trial. The applicant is in jail since 12. 6. 2020. The statement of victim girl u/s 164 Cr. P. C. was recorded on 12th June, 2020, in which she states that from last one year, she were in the tender relationship with the applicant and they have got married and started residing as legal wedded husband and wife. She expressed her desire to remain in the company of the applicant. It is further submitted by the counsel that presently the victim girl is confined to Child Welfare Committee, Kalyanpur, Kanpur Nagar since 12th June, 2020 and she is not interested to join the company of her parent. Under the circumstances, the Court directs the Superintendent/or any other responsible officer of that C. W. C. , Kalyanpur, Kanpur Nagar to release the girl forthwith so as to enable her to go in the company of the applicant.

[case 481]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 23rd DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2016 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE A. V. CHANDRASHEKARA CRIMINAL PETITION NO. 8267/2015 BETWEEN: STATE OF KARNATAKA BY YAGATI POLICE REPRESENTED BY STATE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, BENGALURU-577 140. .. . The present petition is filed by the State represented by Yagati police station, Chikkamagalur District, requesting the court to cancel bail granted to the respondent-accused on 10. 6. 2015 in SPECIAL CASE (POCSO) NO. 17/2015 by the I Additional Sessions and Special Judge at Chikkamagalur. .. . A case is registered against the accused in Crime No. 1/15 by the respondent-Yagati police and after concluding investigation, charge sheet is filed for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366, 366A, 376, 114 read with Section 34, I. P. C. and Sections 4, 6 and 17 of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. .. . The maximum punishment contemplated could be imprisonment for life. .. . This court is of the opinion that bail granted to the respondent-1st accused is liable to be cancelled. In the light of the facts of the case and special court being established to take up cases of this nature, directing the concerned court to dispose of the matter at the earliest and imposing few conditions on the accused would meet the ends of justice.

[case 482]
On 01. 03. 2014, at about 10. 25 p. m, an information vide DD No. 41A was received at the police station Kotla Mubarak Pur, New Delhi that a lady who has come from Bengal has been feeling scared in Room No. 73, House No. A-54, Bapu Park, Kotla Mubarak Pur, New Delhi. SI Sushil Kumar went there and met the prosecutrix 'Y'. She was unable to understand and speak English or Hindi. She was taken to Safdarjung Hospital but she refused for her medical examination. Ms Pallavi from NGO Shaktivahini was called to counsel and translate the language of the prosecutrix. The prosecutrix 'Y' alleged that she had gone to Howrah to board a bus for Mumbai. She lost her mobile and met a girl namely Shyamoli who advised her not to go to Mumbai but to Delhi and work in a cloth factory. Shyamoli called Moinuddin Sardar on phone. He came there and pretended that he does the business of cloth and would employ her in his business. She (prosecutrix 'Y') came with Moinuddin to Delhi by train. On 01. 03. 2014 evening, she was taken to Kotla by Moinuddin where Rafiq also came. Both of them took liquor. Moinuddin then tried to open her pant and forced himself upon her. When she resisted, he hit a bottle on her head. She however pushed him and ran away. She started shouting. Many persons gathered and one of them called the police at 100 number.

[case 483]
Laljibhai S/O. Babubhai Ramjibhai. .. vs State Of Gujarat & on 30 March, 2016
IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION (FOR QUASHING & SET ASIDE FIR/ORDER) NO. 3433 of 2016
LALJIBHAI S/O. BABUBHAI RAMJIBHAI BABARIYA KODI. .. .Applicant(s)
STATE OF GUJARAT & 1. .. .Respondent(s)
MR PAWAN A BAROT, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
MR. RAJESH B CHAVDA, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
DS AFF. NOT FILED (N) for the Respondent(s) No. 2
Mr. J. K. Shah, APP for the Respondent(s) No. 1
CORAM: HONOURABLE MS JUSTICE SONIA GOKANI
Date: 30/03/2016
Rule returnable today. Learned APP Mr. J. K. Shah waives service of notice of rule for and on behalf of them. This Criminal Misc. Application is preferred under Section 482 of Cr. P. C for quashment of complaint being FIR No. I-CR No. 119 of 2012 registered with Kalavad Police Station, Jamnagar for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366 and 376 of IPC and under Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO'). The complainant is duly served with the notice. Mr. R. V. Vinchi, Police Sub Inspector of Kalavad Town Police Station is present before this Court. According to him, complainant has no resistance, as the prosecutrix girl has already married to the applicant and has a child.

[case 484]
Ananth vs Jenmarakkini on 30 January, 2024. This Civil Miscellaneous Appeal has been filed by the appellant/petitioner/husband, challenging the order passed by the learned Principal District Judge, at Thanjavur in I. D. O. P. No. 140 of 2012 dated 19. 04. 2018. The brief facts leading to the filing of I. D. O. P. No. 140 of 2012 are as follows: The petitioner is a differently abled person with disability in his right leg caused due to polio during his childhood. The petitioner fell in love with the respondent while he was pursuing 12th standard. Thereafter, on 10. 03. 1996, the petitioner married the respondent at Arputha Matha Temple, Melathuruthi, Thiruvaiyaru Taluk. After marriage, the petitioner commenced his matrimonial life with the respondent in his mother's house. Two daughters namely, Soundarya and Sneha were born out of this matrimony. The marriage was initially healthy, but in 2005, the respondent began to refuse intimate relations and later began to inflict physical harm. The petitioner, concerned for the wellbeing of their children, tried to salvage the marriage but faced violence and intimidation from the respondent and her family, culminating in his decision to seek a divorce in 2012. The learned Trial Court dismissed Ananth's petition, stating he failed to substantiate his claims of abuse and misbehavior.

[case 485]
Ravi Shankar vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 7 March, 2025. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 42208 of 2024. Applicant: - Ravi Shankar. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. And 3 Others. Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J. 1. None is present on behalf of the informant even in the revised call. 2. On telephonic conversation with the Investigating Officer, learned AGA has informed that the informant is out of station. 3. Heard Sri Phool Singh Yadav, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Sunil Kumar, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material placed on record. 4. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 171 of 2022, under Sections 376(3), 328, 506 of I. P. C. and Sections 5j(ii), (5n)/6 of POCSO Act, during the pendency of trial. 5. The applicant's counsel argues that the FIR was filed six months late, indicating possible manipulation. 6. The Court recognized the DNA report indicating the applicant's non-paternity of the child. 7. The applicant has been in custody for over two years. 8. The State has opposed the release on bail, citing the seriousness of the charges. 9. The Court observed that sufficient witnesses had already been examined to allow bail. 10. The bail was granted with explicit conditions. 11. Any breach will lead to possible cancellation of the bail.

[case 486]
The present petition has been filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, with a prayer for issuance of a writ, order or direction especially in the nature of habeas corpus for the release of alleged detenue namely Neha wife of Harpreet Singh, resident of village Dhugga Kalan, Tehsil Garhiwala, District Hoshiarpur.
The petitioner herein is the real sister-in-law of one Harpreet Singh, aged 28 years son of Late Sh. Lashkar, resident of village Dugga Kalan, Tehsil Garhdiwala, District Hoshiarpur and has filed the present writ petition seeking writ in the nature of habeas corpus for release of one Neha, aged 16 years and 6 months who despite being below the age of 18 years married with aforesaid Harpreet Singh on 18. 8. 2020 in Prachin Pashupati Nath Shiv Mandir, MDC, Panchkula, as per the Hindu rites and rituals against the wishes of parents of Neha. Harpreet Singh belongs to Ad-dharmi caste which falls under SC category whereas Neha belongs to Lohar caste which falls under the backward category. The date of birth of Harpreet Singh is stated to be 18. 1. 1991 and is now about 30 years of age whereas date of birth of Neha is stated to be 6. 4. 2004 and is now a little less than 17 years of age. Both of them are governed by the Hindu Law.

[case 487]
Laljibhai S/O. Babubhai Ramjibhai. .. vs State Of Gujarat & on 30 March, 2016
IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION (FOR QUASHING & SET ASIDE FIR/ORDER) NO. 3433 of 2016
LALJIBHAI S/O. BABUBHAI RAMJIBHAI BABARIYA KODI. .. .Applicant(s)
STATE OF GUJARAT & 1. .. .Respondent(s)
MR PAWAN A BAROT, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
MR. RAJESH B CHAVDA, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
DS AFF. NOT FILED (N) for the Respondent(s) No. 2
Mr. J. K. Shah, APP for the Respondent(s) No. 1
CORAM: HONOURABLE MS JUSTICE SONIA GOKANI
Date: 30/03/2016
Rule returnable today. Learned APP Mr. J. K. Shah waives service of notice of rule for and on behalf of them. This Criminal Misc. Application is preferred under Section 482 of Cr. P. C for quashment of complaint being FIR No. I-CR No. 119 of 2012 registered with Kalavad Police Station, Jamnagar for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366 and 376 of IPC and under Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO'). The complainant is duly served with the notice. Mr. R. V. Vinchi, Police Sub Inspector of Kalavad Town Police Station is present before this Court. According to him, complainant has no resistance, as the prosecutrix girl has already married to the applicant.

[case 488]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. This case (X vs State Of U. P. And Another) revolved around a revisionist who was a juvenile involved in a criminal case where he faced charges under the IPC and POCSO Act. On 10 May 2023, the court heard arguments about the rejection of the juvenile's bail application by the Juvenile Justice Board. The revisionist was noted to be young, approximately 14 years old, and was claimed to have been falsely implicated in the matter. His defense pointed out the improbability of the charges against him, arguing that he was in protective custody and had no previous criminal records. The court discussed the significance of the Juvenile Justice Act regarding bail provisions, emphasizing that a juvenile should ordinarily be released unless strong evidence suggests otherwise. The arguments surrounding the juveniles upbringing, the lack of discipline and supervision from parents, and the necessity to ensure the child's best interests during judicial proceedings were critically analyzed. The court highlighted the importance of a social investigation report to aid its decisions and determined that the reasonings in the lower courts were not adequately based in law, which led to the eventual ruling that allowed the juvenile to be granted bail under certain conditions.

[case 489]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Akshat Pahadia vs Union Of India on 13 June, 2022 Author: Vivek Rusia Bench: Vivek Rusia, Amar Nath Kesharwani IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH AT INDORE BEFORE HON'BLE SHRI JUSTICE VIVEK RUSIA & HON'BLE SHRI JUSTICE AMAR NATH (KESHARWANI) ON THE 13th OF JUNE, 2022 WRIT PETITION No. 4237 of 2022 Between: - AKSHAT PAHADIA S/O RAJ PRAKESH PAHADIA, AGED ABOUT 38 YEARS, OCCUPATION- ADVOCATE, R/O 6-51-72 KANCHAN BAG, INDORE (MADHYA PRADESH). .. .. PETITIONER AND UNION OF INDIA, MINISTRY OF LAW & JUSTICE, 1. THROUGH PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, 4TH FLOOR, A-WING, SHASTRI BHAWAN (DELHI) DEPARTMENT OF THE LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS 2. THROUGH SECRETARY 4TH FLOOR, A-WING, SHASTRI BHAWAN (DELHI). .. .. RESPONDENTS This petition coming on for order this day, JUSTICE VIVEK RUSIA passed the following: ORDER Petitioner present in person. He is heard on the question on admission. 1. Petitioner has filed this present petition in the nature of Public Interest Litigation challenging the constitutional validity of the Section 125 (1) (b) of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. According to the petitioner, the aforesaid provision relates to the grant of maintenance to a minor child only up to the age of 18 years, hence, the provision ultra-virus article 21, 39, 47 and 51 of the Constitution of India.

[case 490]
A complaint by post was received at the Kallavi Police Station, on 10. 04. 2017 from P. W. 1, to the effect that, on 04. 04. 2017 at about 9. 30 A. M, when P. W. 1's grandson, namely victim child, aged 4 years was playing near the house, the appellant took him by holding his hand and after some time, the victim child was found lying naked with blood in his ear, mouth and nose and the appellant/accused had committed oral penetration and even though she took up the matter with the other residents of the village, they had directed her to go to the Police Station and therefore, she has lodged the complaint. On the strength of the said allegation, a case in Crime No. 44 of 2017 under Section 3(A) read with 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and P. W. 14 took up the case for investigation and laid a Final Report, after completion of the investigation, proposing the accused guilty for the offence under Section 5(m)(u) read with 6 of the POCSO Act. The offence was taken cognizance by the Trial Court and after furnishing copies under Section 207 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and upon perusing the material records of the case, a charge was framed against the accused under Section 5(m)(u) read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012. Upon being questioned, the accused denied the charge and stood trial.

[case 491]
Prashant Thru. His Uncle / Pairokar. .. vs State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Deptt. Of. .. on 22 March, 2023. The instant Criminal Revision is preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 19. 04. 2022 passed by the learned Special Judge POCSO Act, Court No. 14, Sitapur in Criminal Appeal No. 08 of 2022, arising out of Case Crime/FIR No. 525 of 2021, under Sections 147, 148, 149, 302, 307, 34, 504 I. P. C. and Sections 7 Criminal Law Amendment Act, Police Station Maholi, District Sitapur. The revisionist, through his uncle, argues that he is an innocent child with no criminal background and the courts overlooked important factors regarding bail for juveniles under the Juvenile Justice Act. The gravity of the offence is not a relevant consideration for denying bail to a juvenile. The courts have failed to provide evidence linking the juvenile to potential danger or known criminals that would justify his detention. Hence, the need for proper assessment of the conditions set forth in Section 12(1) of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 is emphasized. The case highlights child protection laws and their implications on judicial decisions. The order dated 22. 3. 2023 allows the bail application with specific conditions for monitoring the juvenile's rehabilitation.

[case 492]
Taukal @ Salim Mehmud Pathan vs The Sr. Police Inspector And Anr on 17 October, 2018. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 64 OF 2018 Irfan Mehmud Pathad Age-26 Year Occ-Business, R/a, Nagar Water Tank Prem Nagar, Beside Masjid Ulhasnagar (At Present lodged at Aadharwadi Kalyan Jail). .. Appellant V/s. .. . 2. The State of Maharashtra, Through Chief Public Prosecutor, High Court Bombay A. S. 3. Smt. Ashwini Sunder Janrao, Age-25 Yrs. , Occ-Labour, Resident of Mahatma Phule Nagar, Behind Hill Line Police Station. .. .Respondents. With CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 65 OF 2018 Taukal @ Salim Mehmud Pathan, Age-22 Year Occ-Business, R/a, Nagar Water Tank Prem Nagar, Beside Masjid Ulhasnagar (At Present lodged at Aadharwadi Jail Kalyan). .. Appellant. .. . (. .. ) The crime in question is registered on the basis of report lodged by respondent No. 3 Ashvini Janrao. She is not an eye witness to the incident in question. She belongs to Scheduled Castes "Mahar". The victim of the offence is her 9 years old son Kunal, who at the relevant time was taking school education in 4th Std. Another victim of this crime is Ramesh, a 8 years old child, who happends to be friend of Kunal. 10. Chargesheet contains statement of eye witnesses to the incident in question. ..

[case 493]
The present Habeus Corpus Petition by the father of the three young boys aged about 15 years, 11 years and 11 years respectively. The second and third boys are twins. The respondents had stated that the young children namely Vijayapuvan, Dharmamathan and Dharmamahilan sons of Jayaraman had been secured and showed their photographs along with the third and fourth respondents. The third respondent is the maternal grand father of the two children. It is the grievance of the first boy that the mother did not die a peaceful death. However it is complained that the petitioner herein is in the habit of lodging frequent complaints against the third respondent, owing to which the children are not able to study peacefully. There is also an incident narrated about the petitioner abusing the youngest child. These facts can be examined only by an appropriate Court. The scope of Habeus Corpus Petition is to determine whether the children are in unlawful custody. They are now in custody of their maternal uncle and grand father. The petitioner will have to work out his remedy by filing necessary application and seek guardianship or permanent custody. We would direct the petitioner not to lodge frequent complaint against the third respondent who is acting only in the best interest of the two children.

[case 494]
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / vs The State - Rep. By on 16 November, 2017
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
RESERVED ON: 25. 08. 2021
DELIVERED ON: 02. 09. 2021
CORAM: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P. N. PRAKASH and THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE R. HEMALATHA
Crl. A. No. 137 of 2018
V. Vishnubhaskar. .. Accused / Appellant
The State - Rep. by The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Coimbatore(East), Coimbatore District. (Crime No. 19 of 2015). .. Complainant / Respondent
PRAYER: Criminal Appeal filed under Section 374 (2) of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 to set aside the Judgment dated 16. 11. 2017 of the Mahila Court, Coimbatore, passed in S. C. C. No. 15/2016, convicting and sentencing the appellant under Section 5 (l), (m), (n) and Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 to undergo imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- and in default, to undergo three months rigorous imprisonment.
The case of the prosecution as could be discerned from the evidence is as follows: The defacto complainant Nithya (PW1) is the wife of the appellant / accused Vishnubhaskar. .. The conviction reflects the seriousness with which courts treat child sexual abuse cases, sending a clear deterrent message against similar acts in the community.

[case 495]
X-Juvenile vs State Of U. P. And Another on 13 March, 2023. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his mother under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as "JJ Act, 2015") against the judgment dated 02. 11. 2022 passed by Additional Sessions Judge/ Special Judge (POCSO) Act, Aligarh in Criminal Appeal No. 133 of 2022, whereby the appellate court has rejected the Criminal appeal and affirmed the order dated 28. 09. 2022 passed by Juvenile Justice Board, Aligarh. The Juvenile Justice Board has rejected the bail application of the revisionist, which has been filed by his natural guardian/mother, under Section 12 of "JJ Act, 2015" in Case Crime No. 141 of 2022, under Section 147, 148, 149, 302, 506, 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (in short "I. P. C. "). Learned counsel for the revisionist submits that the revisionist was 17 years 02 months and 03 days old at the time of the incident. As per educational certificate, the Juvenile Justice Board declared the revisionist as juvenile. .. The bail application under Section 12 of "JJ Act, 2015" has been rejected by the Juvenile Justice Board. .. Furthermore, he has committed the heinous offence and indulged in this activity due to lack of discipline. ..

[case 496]
Shaju@Shaju vs State Of Kerala on 1 September, 2022. The charge in the above case is of the father of a minor girl having repeatedly committed rape on her, at times against the order of nature, threatened the girl with dire consequences if it was revealed. In addition to the offence under Sections 376 & 377 of the IPC, commission of aggravated penetrative sexual assault, under the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO Act') was also charged. The appellant is the accused, who stood trial in which the prosecution led evidence through 17 witnesses marked 18 documents and produced 5 material objects. The appellant stood convicted under Ss. 376, 377 and 506(1)of the IPC and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life under 376(2)(f)&(i) of IPC which is for the remainder of his natural life and a fine of Rs. 1 lakh. Under S. 377 IPC the appellant was sentenced to five years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) and a fine of Rs. 50000/-. A further RI for six months under S. 506 of IPC was also imposed. The appellant was also sentenced to RI for three years and a fine of Rs. 25, 000/- under S. 7 r/w S. 8 POCSO Act. Appropriate default sentences were ordered and S. 42 of the POCSO Act was reckoned, to not impose a separate sentence under S. 5(l)&(n) r/w S. 6 of the POCSO Act.

[case 497]
Tulsi Sahu vs State Of Chhattisgarh on 25 March, 2025. HIGH COURT OF CHHATTISGARH AT BILASPUR MCRC No. 790 of 2025. The applicant has filed this bail application under Section 483 of the Bhartiya Nagrrik Suraksha Sanhita for grant of regular bail as he is in custody in connection with Crime No. 258/2024 registered at police station Mahasamund, District Mahasamund (CG) for the offence punishable under Sections 376, 376(3), 506 Part-II of IPC and Sections 4 & 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012. Prosecution case in brief is that on 17. 05. 2024, the prosecutrix aged about 15 years complained her parents that she was suffering from stomach ache and on being asked by the parents, she informed that on 30-31. 03. 2024, at about 11-12. 00 hrs. when she was going to school, the present applicant proposed her and thereafter on the pretext of marriage, had committed sexual intercourse. She was admitted at Aditya Hospital, Mahasamund where she was found pregnant and a complaint was registered at police station Mahasamund on 19. 05. 2024 as Crime No. 258/2024. On the basis of the said report, the police registered the offence against the applicant and was arrested. learned counsel for the respondent/State, on the other hand, has opposed the bail application. Heard counsel for the parties and perused the record.

[case 498]
The Minor Through Guardian Zareen vs State (Govt Of Nct Of Delhi) on 21 March, 2016. The petitioner has filed the present writ petition seeking enhancement and grant of fair compensation. A direction is also sought to the respondent to reformulate the Delhi Victims Compensation Scheme, 2011 by providing enhanced and a more rational scheme for compensation for victims of child sexual assault and abuse. According to the petitioner, the present schedule is arbitrary, unfair, irrational and discriminatory and also contrary to the Articles 14, 15 & 21 of the Constitution of India. The necessary facts to be noticed and which have given rise to the facts of the present writ petition are that the petitioner is a minor of 13 years and at the time of filing of the writ petition, he was studying in Class-9 in Government Boys Senior Secondary School, Vasant Kunj, B-I, New Delhi. On 17. 10. 2013, when the Minor was studying in Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya, Qutub Minar, Mehrauli, at the end of his third period, he was called outside his classroom by 4 students of class 9, 11, and 12, aged less than 18 years ('Juveniles in conflict with law' or 'Juveniles'). They abducted the minor, took him to a jungle located behind the school premises, attacked him and committed a brutal sexual assault upon him. ..

[case 499]
Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan vs State Of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. .. . on 4 March, 2025. THE HIGH COURT OF ORISSA AT CUTTACK CRLMC No. 3850 of 2024 (In the matter of an application under Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarika Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ) Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan. .. .. .. Petitioner -Versus- State of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. Opposite Parties For the Petitioner: Mr. Amitav Tripathy, Advocate For the Opposite Parties: Mr. Bibekananda Nayak, Additional Government Advocate CORAM: THE HONOURABLE SHRI JUSTICE SIBO SANKAR MISHRA Date of Hearing: 18. 02. 2025: : Date of Judgment: 04. 03. 2025 S. S. Mishra, J. The petitioner has filed the present application under Section 528 of the BNSS, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. , 1973, seeking to quash legal proceedings originating from serious allegations against him. The circumstances reveal a scenario where the victim and accused have reconciled and entered a marriage post-incident. The court needs to consider whether the mere reconciliation invalidates the need for prosecution in crimes that typically carry grave societal implications, particularly under the POCSO Act. What guidelines should the court follow to resolve this dilemma while ensuring the protection of vulnerable youths?

[case 500]
The petitioner has filed the instant petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a writ in the nature of Habeas Corpus for directing respondents No. 2 and 3 to search and produce the detenue, namely Kushal, aged about 7 years, son of the petitioner, before the Court, by releasing him from illegal custody of respondents No. 4 to 8. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submits that the petitioner is the biological mother of the alleged detenue (her minor son), who is allegedly in the illegal custody of respondents No. 4 to 8. It is contended that since the inception of the petitioner's marriage, the behaviour of respondents No. 4 to 8 (her in-laws family) has been hostile towards her. The respondents are alleged to have persistently demanded dowry from the petitioner and her family. Furthermore, it is submitted that respondent No. 4, who is the husband of the petitioner and father of the alleged detenue, is an alcoholic and had subjected the petitioner to physical abuse under the influence of alcohol. Learned counsel further argues that the respondents have prevented the petitioner from meeting her minor son i. e. alleged detenue, for the past six months and have been instilling feelings of animosity in the child against his own mother.

[case 501]
State vs Ashok Kumar S/O Sh. Jagat Nath on 15 March, 2018. IN THE COURT OF DR. ARCHANA SINHA ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE06, WEST TIS HAZARI COURTS, DELHI State Case UID No. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . 55937/16 New SC No. 20/18 Old SC No. 208/13 FIR No. 183/13 PS Ranhola U/S: 6/10 of POCSO Act. ORDER/JUDGMENT: Accused is convicted for the offences punishable U/s. 6/10 of POCSO Act. The present case is a glaring example of one such incident and reflects the story of a family that permitted the accused namely Ashok Kumar as 'Atithi', (a guest) in their house for one day and such Atithi has misused the precious values of compassion. The prosecution case is that the parents of the prosecutrix permitted Ashok Kumar to stay in their house on 29062013. The accused, after the father of the prosecutrix left for his job, during the day time, when the mother was sleeping, entered the room and committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the girl child of the age of 7 years. The police was called, and the accused was apprehended and arrested. The medical examination of the girl revealed her hymen was found torn, leading to the prosecution case under POCSO Act. The prosecution has established the guilt of the accused through the child's testimony and corroborating witnesses.

[case 502]
Kuldeep vs State Of Haryana on 25 April, 2018. Petitioner seeks the concession of bail pending trial in FIR No. 156 dated 18. 03. 2017, under Section 342 IPC and Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, (for short 'POCSO' Act) registered at Police Station Assandh, District Karnal. It is contended that the present petitioner has been falsely implicated in this case due to a quarrel between the petitioner's mother and the complainant. The matter was duly reported at the concerned police station. A compromise had taken place between the parties. Prior to the lodging of the present FIR, there was another dispute between the petitioner's brother-Surinder and the complainant. The said matter was also reported and compromised in the police station. The present petitioner, it is argued met with an accident one day prior to the alleged incident. He was injured at the time of the alleged occurrence. The medical evidence on record does not substantiate allegations raised against the petitioner. As per the medical evidence, no external or internal injury was detected on the person of the victim. Moreover, the complainant as well as her husband have deposed before the learned trial Court. The child victim has not been cited as a witness in this case.

[case 503]
Shafeeque vs State Of Kerala on 22 September, 2020. This application is filed under Section 438 of the Cr. P. C. The applicant herein is the accused in Crime No. 433 of 2020 of the Maradu Police Station registered under Sections 4, 3(a), 21, 17 and 16 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Section 77 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) of Children Act, 2015 and Sections 366A, 107, 376(2)(i) and 506 of the IPC. The victim in the instant case is a minor child aged 16 years. The applicant is her neighbour. In her statement to the police, she alleges that the applicant handed over ganja and she was persuaded to smoke the same. On another occasion, when the girl refused, the applicant is alleged to have threatened her that he would disclose the earlier incident to others and she was persuaded to smoke the same. After about two days, one Sathar called him and she was asked to come to an apartment at Thykoodam. When she refused, he is alleged to have told her that the incident involving the applicant would be made public. The child is alleged to have gone to the apartment and she was subjected to sexual abuse by the said accused. The specific allegation against the applicant is that he had abetted and facilitated the acts of the 1st accused.

[case 504]
Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan vs State Of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. .. . on 4 March, 2025. THE HIGH COURT OF ORISSA AT CUTTACK CRLMC No. 3850 of 2024 (In the matter of an application under Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarika Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ) Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan. .. .. .. Petitioner -Versus- State of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. Opposite Parties For the Petitioner: Mr. Amitav Tripathy, Advocate For the Opposite Parties: Mr. Bibekananda Nayak, Additional Government Advocate CORAM: THE HONOURABLE SHRI JUSTICE SIBO SANKAR MISHRA Date of Hearing: 18. 02. 2025: : Date of Judgment: 04. 03. 2025 S. S. Mishra, J. The petitioner has filed the present application under Section 528 of the BNSS, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. , 1973, requesting the court to annul proceedings related to allegations of kidnapping and sexual offenses against minors. With the parties now married, the issue arises regarding the extent to which personal reconciliation can mitigate the irreversible nature of legal obligations in cases where sexual violence and abduction are alleged. What key factors should the court evaluate to decide whether the complexity of such cases demands the continuance of legal action despite personal reconciliations?

[case 505]
1. Heard Sri Sushil Kumar Tiwari and Sri Subhash Srivastava, learned A. G. A. for the State. Despite service of notice upon opposite party no. 2 none has appeared.
2. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his father under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as "JJ Act, 2015") against the judgment and order dated 20. 3. 2021 passed by Additional Sessions Judge/ Special Judge (POCSO Act), Court No. 1 Moradabad in Criminal Appeal No. 17 of 2021, whereby the appellate court has rejected the Criminal appeal and affirmed the order dated 23. 02. 2021 passed by Juvenile Justice Board, Moradabad. The Juvenile Justice Board has rejected the bail application of the revisionist, which has been filed by his natural guardian/father, under Section 12 of "JJ Act, 2015", in Case No. 21 of 2020 arising out of Case Crime No. 162 of 2020, under Section 302/34 of the Indian Penal Code (in short "I. P. C. ").

[case 506]
When the HCP was listed before this Court on 10. 01. 2024, the learned counsel for the 4th respondent undertook to produce the minor child before us and accordingly, the minor child was produced on 12. 01. 2024. The 3rd and 4th respondents, accompanied by the 1st respondent Police, were also present before us. We had interacted with the petitioner, respondents 3 and 4, as well as the minor child, in our Chambers. While the petitioner/mother informed us that the 3rd respondent herein is a divorcee and has no children and since she is emotionally attached to the petitioner's daughter, she had colluded with the 4th respondent and gave a false complaint against her husband, in order to retain the custody of the child. However, the 3rd and 4th respondents stated that the child had clearly narrated the incident to them that her father had sexually assaulted her by touching her private parts, which prompted the 3rd respondent to give a complaint before the jurisdictional Police. They further stated that it is only under the orders passed by the Child Welfare Committee, the custody of the child was handed over to them and that it is unsafe to hand over the custody to the petitioner, who was aware of the crime committed by her husband and has not reported the same to anyone.

[case 507]
X vs State Of Kerala on 29 October, 2021 - In the HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT THE HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE M. R. ANITHA. CRL. MC NO. 4514 OF 2021. Petitioner is the sole accused in S. C. 242/2018 on the file of Fast Track Special Court (PoCSO) Attingal, arising from Crime No. 1139/2017 of Ayiroor police station. This Crl. M. C has been filed seeking to quash further proceedings in the above said case. Prosecution case is that petitioner committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the minor victim girl, who is a relative, on 28. 10. 2015, in a rented house of her sister and thereafter, repeated the same and impregnated her; thereby committed the offence afore. Annexure-A1 is the copy of the final report in Crime No. 1139/2017 of Ayiroor Police Station. The 3rd respondent is the de facto complainant, the mother of the victim. She had filed Annexure-A2 affidavit. Annexure-A3 is the affidavit duly sworn in by the victim. According to the petitioner, marriage of the petitioner and 3rd respondent was solemnized as per the Special Marriage Act on 8. 9. 2021. Annexure-A4 is the true copy of the marriage certificate. A girl child is also born to them on 21. 10. 2017. Annexure-A5 is the true copy of the birth certificate of the child born out of their relationship.

[case 508]
V. John Prabhakar vs / on 7 November, 2022. Before the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court. The Petitioner has filed a Writ Petition seeking Writ of Mandamus to direct further investigation by another agency based on the Petitioners' application. The first petitioner is associated with the Russ Foundation, an organization aimed at assisting underprivileged children and those affected by HIV. The victim girl was admitted to this foundation. Following some disputes within the Child Welfare Committee regarding fund management and allegations against the Petitioners, the situation escalated, resulting in accusations of abuse against them. Several details emerged about the victim's health, including reports of suspected sexual abuse, and the jury is called to investigate the interpretations of medical findings. Furthermore, the Court outlines past rulings concerning the nature of investigations in such cases, emphasizing the role of the Childhood Protection law. The petitioners argue that the investigation has been compromised due to biases and absence of reliability in the charges against them. The Court discusses whether the Petitioners have the right to demand a different investigation agency, given the allegations and the absence of a prima facie case indicated.

[case 509]
The applicant herein is the accused in S. C. No. 745 of 2018 on the file of the Fast Track Special Judge, Pathanamthitta. In the said case, he was charged for having committed offences punishable under Sections 366, 376(2)(f) and (n) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Section 6 r/w. 5(l), (m) and (p) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act). By the impugned judgment dated 23. 08. 2024, the applicant was found guilty and sentenced to undergo: (i) rigorous imprisonment for a period of 10 years and to pay a fine of 50, 000/-, with a default clause, for the offence under Section 366 of the IPC and; (ii) imprisonment for life which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of this natural life and to pay a fine of 1, 00, 000/-, with a default clause, for the offence under Section 6 r/w. 5(l) of the POCSO Act and; (iii) imprisonment for life which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of this natural life and to pay a fine of 1, 00, 000/-, with a default clause, for the offence under Section 6 r/w. 5(m) of the POCSO Act and; (iv) imprisonment for life which shall mean imprisonment for the remainder of this natural life and to pay a fine of 1, 00, 000/-, with a default clause, for the offence under Section 6 r/w. 5(p) of the POCSO Act.

[case 510]
The accused was arrested on the same day at 5: 10 PM vide Ex. PW-1/B and the case property i. e the stick and cloth (chunni) were taken into possession vide Ex. PW-1/D and Ex. PW-1/E respectively. Accused was sent to the hospital for medical examination. The site plan was prepared at the instance of the complainant vide Ex. PW-13/B. Both the children were also medically examined -first on 11. 01. 2013 at 11: 45 PM vide Ex. PW-8/A and Ex. PW-8/B, and thereafter on 12. 01. 2013 at 1 AM vide Ex. PW-7/A and Ex. PW-7/B. Statements of the children were got recorded under Section 164 Cr. P. C on 29. 01. 2013 vide Ex. PW-4/B and Ex. PW-4/D. Victim S in his statement under section 164 CrPC (Ex. PW-4/D) states that he and victim I were playing on the terrace. The accused came to the terrace and asked them for help in moving boxes and told them that he would give them 10 rupees for the same. He took him and I downstairs to his room and shut the room. He made them watch TV and bolted the door. He tied the hands and legs of both the victims. Thereafter, the accused removed his pant and removed the pyjama of S. Accused got oil and applied it on his anus. He then stated that he does not remember what the accused did to him, and I will narrate whatever happened thereafter.

[case 511]
Vikas Soni vs State Of U. P. & Another on 5 August, 2021. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH. Case: - CRIMINAL REVISION No. - 1461 of 2019. Revisionist: - Vikas Soni. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. & Another. Counsel for Revisionist: - Akhilesh Kumar Pandey. Counsel for Opposite Party: - Govt. Advocate. Hon'ble Mrs. Saroj Yadav, J. This criminal revision has been preferred by the juvenile Vikas Soni through his father, under Section 102 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act of 2015 against judgement and order dated 13. 9. 2019 passed by Special Judge, (POCSO Act), Pratapgarh. Vikas Soni was arrested under various provisions of IPC relating to theft, and declared a juvenile with his age established as 16 years. His bail applications were rejected by the J. J. Board and the appellate court. The primary arguments revolved around the juvenile's claim of being falsely implicated and the alleged lack of evidence. The emphasis on the legal principle that bail is the rule for juveniles raises questions regarding how the system perceives the vulnerability of young offenders. Why is it significant to highlight the necessity for a robust juvenile justice system and its implications on the rights of minor offenders like Vikas Soni?

[case 512]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to call for the records pending on the file of the Fast Track Mahila Court, Namakkal pertaining to Spl. C. C. No. 2 of 2022 and to quash the same. The learned counsel for the petitioner would submit that the petitioner and the victim girl are close relatives. The victim girl is none other than the daughter of the maternal uncle of the petitioner. Both of them loved each other and the victim girl was born on 04. 11. 2003. The parents of the petitioner as well as the victim girl, finding that the petitioner and the victim girl are moving close to each other performed the marriage of the petitioner and the victim girl as per the traditions and customs. The petitioner was arrested and the final report was filed for the offences under Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006. The High Court has inherent power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to quash the criminal proceedings even for the offences which are not compoundable under Section 320 of the Code. The Victim girl has also filed an affidavit stating that she got married with the petitioner on 13. 03. 2022 and they are leading their matrimonial life as husband and wife. Hence the proceedings against the petitioner are quashed.

[case 513]
Parikshan Sahni @ Prachhan Sahni vs The State Of Bihar on 11 February, 2025. The present memo of appeal has been preferred against the Judgment and order dated 21. 06. 2023, passed in POCSO Case No-04/2018 arising out of Hiramma P. S Case No-04/2018 dated 31. 01. 2018, passed by learned 1st Additional Session Judge-cum-Special Judge, Sheohar, whereby and where under the opposite party No-02 to 06 having acquitted of the charges u/s 363. 366-A, 34, 376 (2)(i) of I. P. C. and u/s 4 POCSO Act and u/s 9/10/11(1) of the Child Marriage Prohibition Act. The allegation is that the minor daughter went missing and later came to know that the respondent no. 2 herein had given a mobile phone to her. He along with his family members ensured that the girl is taken away for marriage. The charge-sheet was submitted under sections 363, 366-A and 34 of the Indian Penal Code, section 4 of the POCSO Act and section 9, 10, 11(1) of the Prohibition of the Child Marriage Act. The cognizance was taken on 22. 02. 2019, and charges were framed on 16. 02. 2019. Post trial, the Court came to the conclusion that the prosecution has failed to prove the charges and they were acquitted. The present petition against the said acquittal is an abuse of the process of law which needs dismissal.

[case 514]
Nishant S/O. Prabhakarrao Dhande (In. .. vs State Of Maharashtra Thr. Police. .. on 20 March, 2018
The appellant is challenging the judgment and order dated 5. 11. 2015 rendered by the Additional Sessions Judge, Amravati in Sessions Trial 266 of 2013, by and under which, the appellant - accused is convicted for offence punishable under section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ("POCSO" Act) and is sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to payment of fine of Rs. 5, 000/-. The prosecution case is that the accused was a friend of the father of the victim, who was then aged 14 years and studying in 7th standard. The victim was studying in her house at 6. 00 p. m. On 25. 8. 2013, the accused came and had a word with her father and then left. The father of the victim had meal and left the house to work at the floor mill. After some time, the accused again came to the house of the victim. He had brought two liquor bottles which he consumed at the house of the victim and then asked the mother of the victim to serve meal. The accused had meal and slept at the house of the victim. He woke up at 8. 00 p. m. or thereabout, came close to the victim, removed her clothes, removed his underwear and embraced the victim.

[case 515]
The present petition has been filed by the petitioner praying inter alia for grant of full custody of her minor daughter aged about eleven years, who is presently in the custody of her father and for registration of an FIR under the POCSO Act, against her husband for abusing their minor daughter. The petitioner is represented by Ms. Aishwarya Rao, learned counsel, assigned to her by the Delhi High Court Legal Services Committee to appear on her behalf. Learned counsel submits that the petitioner and her husband were married in November, 2003 and have been blessed with a daughter. It appears from the record that the father of the child and husband of the petitioner had applied for the custody of the minor daughter by filing GP No. 2266/2018 before the Family Court. Initially, an order was passed by the Family Court directing that the custody of the child would remain with the father w. e. f. 7. 00 pm on Monday till Saturday school timings and thereafter, her custody would be transferred to the petitioner/mother w. e. f. Saturday school timings, till Monday evening up till 7. 00 pm. This order was passed on 28. 07. 2018. On 16. 11. 2018, the learned Family Court directed that these custody arrangements would continue till disposal of the main petition.

[case 516]
This order shall dispose off first anticipatory bail application under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of accused-petitioner Sunita filed in case bearing FIR No. 50 dated 25. 9. 2018 under Sections 120-B, 354-A IPC and Section 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, (in short, POCSO Act), registered at Police Station Women, Hansi. The brief allegations which form the FIR have been levelled by a minor girl student of class 10th in Swami Deepa Nand Girls Gurukul, when three weeks prior to the registration of this FIR co-accused Krishan Nand Ji sent all the girls to their dwelling units and called the prosecutrix, who afterward disclosed the incident to her father. It is alleged that 10 minor girls students are victims of the accused, and statements were made under Section 164 and Section 161 Cr. P. C. against the accused. The petitioner, who is the Principal, is accused of having snubbed the victim and threatened her not to disclose the incident. After submission from both sides, the prima facie allegations suggest serious offences having been committed, highlighting ongoing abuse, and thus bail was denied, deemed not justified especially given the possibility of the petitioner influencing the victims.

[case 517]
The petitioner is the second accused in SC No. 39 of 2019 on the file of the Additional Sessions Court-I, Kasaragod, arising out of Crime No. 551 of 2018 of Bekal Police Station for the offences punishable under Section 354(A) of the IPC and Section 7 r/w Sections 8 & 21(1) of the POCSO Act. The brief of the prosecution case is that the first accused, who is the ustad in the Madrasa, wherein the victim child is studying, had sexually abused the minor victim girl and the petitioner mother did not inform the matter to the police in time, and the SI of Police, Bekal Police Station registered Crime No. 551/2018 and after investigation, he filed the final report. It is pointed out that the prosecution allegation against the petitioner is false. The petitioner herein, the second accused, is the mother of the minor victim child, and it is pointed out that she was never aware about the abuse by the ustad and that she never suppressed anything from the police and that she was always looking after her child and that she had some misunderstanding with her husband and that he, in turn, given false information to the police. Final report has been filed as absconding charge and the petitioner apprehends remand to judicial custody on her appearance.

[case 518]
Dhirendra Kumar vs State Of U. P. And Anr. on 5 December, 2019. Present Criminal Revision has been filed by Dhirendra Kumar, Juvenile-revisionist, challenging the impugned judgment and order dated 13. 12. 2017, passed by Ist Additional Sessions Judge, Hamirpur and order dated 03. 08. 2017, passed by Juvenile Justice Board, Hamirpur. Both the Courts below dismissed the bail of Juvenile. Brief facts of the present case are that on 7th April, 2017 at about 1. 00 P. M. , revisionist came and entered in the room of victim, where she was sleeping and revisionist started obscene act with her. On protest, revisionist pressed her mouth by hand, thereafter, he poured kerosene oil on the victim and set her at fire, as a result of which, victim sustained burn injuries. On hearing the shreeks of victim, her father and mother arrived at spot, then accused ran away. She was taken to hospital where she was medically examined on 8. 4. 2017 at C. H. C. Rath, she was referred to District Hospital Hamirpur for further treatment. FIR was lodged in Police Station concerned by her father Jagdish and the case was registered as Case Crime No. 0199 of 2017, under Sections 452, 354, 307, 506 IPC and 6 POCSO Act. During treatment on 17. 4. 2017, victim succumbed to death.

[case 519]
Rakesh Charandas Lonbale (In Jail) vs The State Of Maha. , Thr. P. S. O. , P. S. .. . on 7 June, 2017. The present appeal is directed against the judgment and order of conviction passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Chandrapur in Sessions Case No. 108/2003 on 10. 04. 2015. By the said judgment and order of conviction, the appellant is convicted for an offence punishable under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and is directed to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 2, 000/- in default to suffer further rigorous imprisonment of on year. The appellant is also convicted for an offence punishable under Sections 3 and 4 of the POCSO Act and no separate order of sentence was passed by the court below. The FIR is lodged by "K" herself on 08. 06. 2013 in Police Station Chandrapur (City). The oral report is available on record at Exh. -10. After registration of the crime, "K" was referred for medical examination along with Lady Police Constable. The investigating officer drew the spot panchanama and arrested the appellant. Despite conviction, the prosecution did not provide enough evidence to clearly prove the charges against the appellant leading to his appeal being allowed and conviction being overturned.

[case 520]
Laljibhai S/O. Babubhai Ramjibhai. .. vs State Of Gujarat & on 30 March, 2016
IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION (FOR QUASHING & SET ASIDE FIR/ORDER) NO. 3433 of 2016
LALJIBHAI S/O. BABUBHAI RAMJIBHAI BABARIYA KODI. .. .Applicant(s)
STATE OF GUJARAT & 1. .. .Respondent(s)
MR PAWAN A BAROT, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
MR. RAJESH B CHAVDA, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
DS AFF. NOT FILED (N) for the Respondent(s) No. 2
Mr. J. K. Shah, APP for the Respondent(s) No. 1
CORAM: HONOURABLE MS JUSTICE SONIA GOKANI
Date: 30/03/2016
Rule returnable today. Learned APP Mr. J. K. Shah waives service of notice of rule for and on behalf of them. This Criminal Misc. Application is preferred under Section 482 of Cr. P. C for quashment of complaint being FIR No. I-CR No. 119 of 2012 registered with Kalavad Police Station, Jamnagar for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366 and 376 of IPC and under Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO'). The complainant has no resistance, and considering their existing family situation, what implications does this circumstance hold for the security and protection of children going forward?

[case 521]
The accused in the matter is the father of child victim, aged about 4 years, girl child (hereinafter referred to as 'child victim'). On 14. 02. 2013, the mother of child victim had taken her to Ambedkar Hospital, at about 9. 25 PM and got her medical examination conducted after an information to this effect was made to PS Aman Vihar, vide DD No. 40A, pursuant whereto WASI Asha Devi went to the hospital along with SI Ravinder Solanki, W/Ct. Geeta and Ct. Tarsem, where she found child victim along with her mother. W/ASI Asha Devi collected the MLC of child victim, who was found lying admitted there. She recorded the statement of the mother of child victim to the effect that on 14. 02. 2013 at about 3. 00 PM, she had gone to her mother's house with both her daughters, there, the child victim complained of pain at her lower abdominal area as well as the vagina. On her asking repeatedly about the cause of pain, the child victim told her that in the night the accused used to insert his finger or some other object in her vagina for the last about six months. She further told that the accused had criminally intimidated her not to disclose about it to anybody. On the basis of the aforesaid statement, the case FIR in the matter was recorded. ..

[case 522]
Vinod Kumar @ Sheshnath vs State Nct Of Delhi on 24 August, 2015. This appeal is directed against a judgment dated 16. 08. 2013 of learned Additional Sessions Judge in Sessions Case No. 76/13 arising out of FIR No. 53/2013 by which the appellant Vinod Kumar @ Sheshnath was convicted under Section 10 & 12 of the POCSO Act read with Section 506 IPC. By an order dated 17. 08. 2013, he was sentenced to undergo RI for five years with fine `1, 000/- under Section 10 POCSO Act; RI for one year with fine `500 under Section 12 POCSO Act; and, RI for one year under Section 506 IPC. All the sentences were to run concurrently. The prosecution case is that on and before 2nd February, 2013 the appellant outraged modesty of his daughter 'X' (assumed name), aged around 15 years. She was sexually abused and criminally intimidated for about three years. The Investigating Officer lodged FIR after recording 'X's statement on 15. 02. 2013. She was medically examined and recorded her 164 Cr. P. C. statement. The trial resulted in his conviction. The appellant claims false implication from the prosecutrix under her mother's pressure with whom there was a dispute over the plot sale. However, the trial court found no sound reasons to disbelieve the prosecutrix.

[case 523]
State Of Karnataka, vs Rajesab S/O Mabubsab Hirenaikar, on 13 January, 2020. This Criminal Appeal is filed by the State challenging the Judgment and Order of acquittal dated 29. 04. 2015 passed by the II Addl. District and Sessions Judge and Special Judge, Dharwad in Special Case No. 2/2014. The case of the prosecution as is evident from Ex. P1 is that the prosecutrix had lodged a complaint on 31. 10. 2013 at 19. 20 hours accusing her father-accused herein of sexual abusing her from the year 2012. Based on the complaint the Appellant registered a case in Crime No. 108/2013, for the offences punishable under Sections 376(2), 377, 342, 324, 504, 506 of IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012. The statement of the prosecutrix was recorded under Section 165(5) of Cr. P. C. on 07. 11. 2013. The prosecutrix was subjected to medical examination, which revealed the absence of recent sexual intercourse but indicated other prior sexual activity. However, the Trial Court found the evidence insufficient and acquitted the accused. The State filed an appeal against this acquittal. Legal proceedings and testimonies varied, including recordings and statements which eventually led to the dismissal of the appeal, confirming the acquittal of the accused.

[case 524]
Surendran M. @ Kalyani Surendran vs State on 10 March, 2021. The prosecution has charged a case of abject moral depravity in which five persons, aged between 48 to 79, were alleged to have ravished a minor girl, as complained of by the victim and her mother. The prosecution case rests squarely on the evidence of the victim. The revision and prayer for conversion as an appeal: The appeals are filed by the accused and after hearing commenced and continued for two days, requested for conversion of the RP into an appeal under Section 401(5) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. The victim is enabled to file an appeal against such order of acquittal as per the proviso to Section 372 of the Cr. P. C. In this case the prayer for enhancement of sentence can be considered in the revision itself. However, the technical difficulty in retaining the revision for enhancement of sentence and converting a portion of it as an appeal must be noted. The allegations of abuse occurred after this date; thus we find no reason to interfere with the order of acquittal. The Court held that the evidences led by the accused cast serious doubts about the credibility of the victim's testimony, leading to the dismissal of the charges against the accused.

[case 525]
Baburao S/O. Govinda Kumoti (In Jail) vs State Of Maharashtra Thr. Pso Police. .. on 2 May, 2018. .. The appellant-accused is aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 27-10-2016 rendered by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Gadchiroli in Special POCSO Case 12/2015, by and under which the accused is convicted for offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the Indian Penal Code ('IPC' for short) and Section 4 read with Section 17 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ('POCSO Act' for short) and is further convicted for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC and is sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to payment of fine of Rs. 3, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 4 read with Section 17 of the POCSO Act and to suffer rigorous imprisonment for three years and to payment of fine of Rs. 2, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC. Separate sentence for offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the IPC is not awarded. .. . The investigation ensued, upon completion of which charge-sheet was submitted under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act in the Court of Sessions Judge, Gadchiroli.

[case 526]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V WEDNESDAY, THE 18TH DAY OF JULY 2018 / 27TH ASHADHA, 1940 Bail Appl. .No. 4555 of 2018 AGAINST THE ORDER/JUDGMENT IN CRMC 1423/2018 of ADDL. D. C. & SESSIONS COURT (ATROCITIES & SEXUAL VIOLENCE AG CRIME NO. 1046/2018 OF POONTHURA POLICE STATION, THIRUVANANDAPURAM PETITIONER(S)/SOLE ACCUSED AJIKUMAR J. , S/O. JANARDHANAN, AGED 42 YEARS, "JANANEE", TC 43/1044(3), PARUTHIKUZY, MANACKADU P. O. , MUTTATHARA VILLAGE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM-695009. BY ADVS. SRI. V. S. VINEETH KUMAR SRI. M. D. SASIKUMARAN SRI. SUNIL KUMAR A. G SRI. DIPU JAMES SRI. SETHURAM DHARMAPALAN SMT. BHANU THILAK SRI. GEORGE MATHEW RESPONDENT(S)/COMPLAINANT: 1. STATE OF KERALA, REP. BY STATION HOUSE OFFICER, POONTHURA POLICE STATION, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM-695009, THROUGH PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM-682031. 2. SUB INSPECTOR OF POLICE, POONTHURA POLICE STATION, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM-695009, THROUGH PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KERALA, ERNAKULAM-682031. R BY SR. PUBLIC PROSECUTOR SRI. C. N. PRABHAKARAN THIS BAIL APPLICATION HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 18-07-2018, THE COURT ON THE SAME DAY PASSED THE FOLLOWING: THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE RAJA VIJAYARAGHAVAN V.

[case 527]
Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan vs State Of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. .. . on 4 March, 2025. THE HIGH COURT OF ORISSA AT CUTTACK CRLMC No. 3850 of 2024 (In the matter of an application under Section 528 of the Bharatiya Nagarika Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ) Fayazuddin Khan@Badal Khan. .. .. .. Petitioner -Versus- State of Odisha & Others. .. .. .. Opposite Parties For the Petitioner: Mr. Amitav Tripathy, Advocate For the Opposite Parties: Mr. Bibekananda Nayak, Additional Government Advocate CORAM: THE HONOURABLE SHRI JUSTICE SIBO SANKAR MISHRA Date of Hearing: 18. 02. 2025: : Date of Judgment: 04. 03. 2025 S. S. Mishra, J. The petitioner has filed the present application under Section 528 of the BNSS, 2023 r/w Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. , 1973, to quash the proceedings where allegations of kidnapping a minor and subsequent marriage arose. The court must confront the complex interplay between the rights of the victim who seeks to marry the accused and the imperative of upholding the laws meant to protect minors. What legal principles guide the court's decisions when the victim aligns with social norms post-reconciliation, and how do these principles affect the justice system's response?

[case 528]
A complaint by post was received at the Kallavi Police Station, on 10. 04. 2017 from P. W. 1, to the effect that, on 04. 04. 2017 at about 9. 30 A. M, when P. W. 1's grandson, namely victim child, aged 4 years was playing near the house, the appellant took him by holding his hand and after some time, the victim child was found lying naked with blood in his ear, mouth and nose and the appellant/accused had committed oral penetration and even though she took up the matter with the other residents of the village, they had directed her to go to the Police Station and therefore, she has lodged the complaint. On the strength of the said allegation, a case in Crime No. 44 of 2017 under Section 3(A) read with 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and P. W. 14 took up the case for investigation and laid a Final Report, after completion of the investigation, proposing the accused guilty for the offence under Section 5(m)(u) read with 6 of the POCSO Act. The offence was taken cognizance by the Trial Court and after furnishing copies under Section 207 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and upon perusing the material records of the case, a charge was framed against the accused under Section 5(m)(u) read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

[case 529]
Gujarat High Court, Nagarjun Govardhan Rajaiya Potbattini vs State Of Gujarat on 7 July, 2023. Mr. Sumit Chaudhari, learned advocate states that he has received instructions to appear for and on behalf of the original victim and sought permission to appear on behalf of the Original victim. Considering the issue involved in the present application and with consent of the learned advocates appearing for the applicant and original victim as well as considering the fact that the dispute amongst the applicant and original victim has been resolved amicably, this matter is taken up for final disposal forthwith. By way of this application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, the applicant has prayed for quashing and setting aside FIR being C. R. No. I-11191013230180 OF 2023 registered with Krushna Nagar Police Station, District Ahmedabad City for the offence punishable under Sections 363, 366, 376(2)(N) and 376(3) of the Indian Penal Code; Sections 4, 6 and 12 of the POCSO Act and Section 9 of the Child Marriage Prohibition Act; proceedings of Special POCSO Case No. 64 OF 2023 pending before the learned City Civil and Sessions Court, Ahmedabad as well as other consequential proceedings arising therefrom.

[case 530]
IN THE COURT OF MS. ILLA RAWAT: ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE (NORTHWEST)01, ROHINI: DELHI (Sessions Case No. 40/14) Unique ID case No. 02404R0049172014 State Vs. Pankaj FIR No. : 239/13 U/s: 377 IPC & 6 POCSO Act 2012 P. S. : Vijay Vihar State Vs. Pankaj S/o Jai Parkash R/o C2/49, Budh Vihar PhaseI, Delhi. Date of institution of case 06. 02. 2014 Date on which, judgment has been reserved 16. 01. 2015 Date of pronouncement of judgment:  16. 01. 2015 JUDGMENT: 1. The Investigating Agency was set in motion in the present case, when information regarding wrong act with a minor child aged about 7/8 years, was received at PS Vijay Vihar. The said information was reduced to writing vide DD no. 19A i. e. Ex. PW3/A, which was handed over to SI Virender for inquiry. SI Virender proceeded to the informed place i. e. C2/49, Budh Vihar, PhaseI, along with his staff and there, he came to know that victim had been taken to B. S. A hospital in a PCR Van. The SI Virender left beat constable Sher Pal for safe custody of the place of incident and proceedings to Dr. B. S. A Hospital along with Ct. M. Laxmaiah and found that victim S, aged about 7/8 years was being medically examined. The accused Pankaj was also found present in the hospital. ..

[case 531]
This Criminal Appeal has been filed by the Appellants/accused as against the order passed by the learned Special Judge (Under POCSO Act) at Puducherry in Crl. M. P. No. 2662 of 2021 in Spl. S. C. No. 07 of 2021, dated 01. 12. 2021. The brief facts of the case is that the accused persons along with other accused committed the offence of unlawful procurement of child and wrongful restraint and also committed the offence of aggravated penetrative sexual assault, cruelty to child and providing an intoxicated substances against the victim child and therefore, the respondent Police registered the case against the accused herein in Crime No. 187 of 2020 for the offence under Section 6, 10 of Pocso (Amendment) Act, 2019, Section 17 of Pocso Act, 2012 & Section 3(1)(w)(i) of SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015, Section 3(2)(v) of the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, Section 14(1) of the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986, Section 372, 373, 374, 376AB IPC along with Sections 75, 77, 81 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and Section 376(3), 341, 342 of IPC and to delete the Sections of law 3(1)(l)(iv)(xii) of the SC and St (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989.

[case 532]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL MISCELLANEOUS No. 78541 of 2024 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -63 Year-2024 Thana- Cyber P. S. District- Sitamarhi Sidhant Kumar S/O Kumar Shankar Resident Of Village - Bahera Jahidpur, P. S -Nanpur, District Sitamarhi. .. Petitioner/s Versus 1. The State of Bihar 2. Birendra Kumar Singh, Addl. S. H. O, Cyber Police Station, Dist. - Sitamarhi. Bihar. .. Appearance: For the Petitioner/s: Mr. Ashhar Mustafa, Advocate Ms. Anita Kumari, Advocate For the Opposite Party/s: Mr. Jitendra Kumar Singh, APP. .. CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ASHOK KUMAR PANDEY ORAL ORDER 3 27-01-2025 Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and Mr. Jitendra Kumar Singh, learned APP for the State. 2. The petitioner has prayed for regular bail in a case registered for the offence punishable under sections 74, 75 of the BNS; Sections 67, 67B of IT Act and Sections 14 and 15 of POCSO Act. .. The case of the prosecution is that Birendra Kumar Singh posted at Cyber P. S. , Sitamarhi has received a letter of Government and in that he has received a mobile number from which sexual exploitation and child pornography is uploaded on social sites. .. The above named petitioner is directed to be released on bail. ..

[case 533]
This Criminal Appeal has been filed by the Appellants/accused as against the order passed by the learned Special Judge (Under POCSO Act) at Puducherry in Crl. M. P. No. 2662 of 2021 in Spl. S. C. No. 07 of 2021, dated 01. 12. 2021. The brief facts of the case is that the accused persons along with other accused committed the offence of unlawful procurement of child and wrongful restraint and also committed the offence of aggravated penetrative sexual assault, cruelty to child and providing an intoxicated substance against the victim child and therefore, the respondent Police registered the case against the accused herein in Crime No. 187 of 2020 for the offence under Section 6, 10 of Pocso (Amendment) Act, 2019, Section 17 of Pocso Act, 2012 & Section 3(1)(w)(i) of SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015, Section 3(2)(v) of the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, Section 14(1) of the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986, Section 372, 373, 374, 376AB IPC along with Sections 75, 77, 81 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and Section 376(3), 341, 342 of IPC and to delete the Sections of law 3(1)(l)(iv)(xii) of the SC and St (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989.

[case 534]
Baburao S/O. Govinda Kumoti (In Jail) vs State Of Maharashtra Thr. Pso Police. .. on 2 May, 2018. .. The appellant-accused is aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 27-10-2016 rendered by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Gadchiroli in Special POCSO Case 12/2015, by and under which the accused is convicted for offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the Indian Penal Code ('IPC' for short) and Section 4 read with Section 17 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ('POCSO Act' for short) and is further convicted for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC and is sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to payment of fine of Rs. 3, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 4 read with Section 17 of the POCSO Act and to suffer rigorous imprisonment for three years and to payment of fine of Rs. 2, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC. Separate sentence for offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the IPC is not awarded. .. . Section 354 of the IPC is clearly attracted. However, the evidence on record is not sufficient to prove that the accused crossed the line between preparation and attempt.

[case 535]
Sri Sugandaraju N R vs State Of Karnataka on 10 July, 2020 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 10TH DAY OF JULY, 2020 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE N. K. SUDHINDRARAO CRIMINAL PETITION No. 3016/2020 BETWEEN: SRI. SUGANDARAJU N. R. S/O LATE NARASIMAIAH, AGED ABOUT 53 YEARS, R/O NARASIMHA KRUPA, WARD 19, BEHIND M. G. COLLEGE, KUNIGAL TOWN, TUMKUR DISTRICT, PIN - 572 130. WORKING AT: KITTUR RANI CHENNAMMA RESIDENTIAL SCHOOL, HULIKATTE HOBLI, MAGADI TALUK, RAMANAGAR DISTRICT. .. PETITIONER (BY MS. RAKSHA KEERTHANA K. FOR SRI. KEMPARAJU, ADVOCATE) AND: 1. STATE OF KARNATAKA BY MAGADI POLICE STATION RAMANAGARA DISTRICT, REP. BY ITS STATE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT COMPLEX, BENGALURU- 560 001. 2. HASINA TAJ W/O MUKTHAR SHARIF AGED ABOUT 42 YEARS, PRINCIPAL IN KITUR RANI CHANNAMMA RESIDENTIAL, HULIKATTE VILLAGE, MADBAL HOBLI, MAGADI TALUK, RAMANAGARA - 562120. .. RESPONDENTS (BY SRI. VINAYAKA V. S, HCGP FOR R-1) THIS CRIMINAL PETITION IS FILED UNDER SECTION 438 OF CR. P. C. BY THE ADVOCATE FOR THE PETITIONER PRAYING TO ENLARGE THE PETITIONER ON BAIL IN THE EVENT OF HIS ARREST IN CR. NO. 49/2020 REGISTERED BY MAGADI POLICE STATION, RAMANAGARA FOR THE OFFENCE PUNISHABLE UNDER SECTIONS 8 AND 12 OF POCSO ACT.

[case 536]
Xxxx vs State Of Kerala on 16 April, 2021. This is an application for regular bail filed under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The petitioner is the sole accused in crime No. 656/2020 of Pulinkunnu Police Station, Alappuzha. The allegations against the petitioner are punishable under Sections 376(2)(f), 376(2)(i), 376(2)(n), 323, 506(i) of the IPC and under Sections 5(l), 5(m), 5(n) and Section 12 r/w 11(iii) of the POCSO Act and under Section 75 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000. The petitioner was arrested on 20. 02. 2021 and is in custody for the last 56 days. It is submitted that the petitioner is a lawyer by profession practicing in Alappuzha Courts. The victim is the close relative of the petitioner and from childhood onwards they were together. Even though it is alleged that the petitioner had continued to abuse the child from 2014 onwards, a crime was registered only in 2020. According to the learned counsel, medical reports are against the allegation of penetrative sexual offence. The petitioner shall be released on bail subject to various conditions, including not trying to contact witnesses and not leaving India without permission of the jurisdictional Court.

[case 537]
R. M. Vinod Kumar vs State Of Kerala on 16 June, 2020. The conviction of the appellant and the sentence imposed on him in S. C. No. 503 of 2012 on the files of the First Additional Sessions Court, Thalassery are under challenge in this appeal. The victim in the case is a girl aged 17 years. The accusation in the case is that on 01. 05. 2011 at 3. 00 p. m. , and on several subsequent dates till 05. 07. 2011, the accused committed rape on the victim girl at her residence. The court found the accused guilty under Section 376 of IPC, convicted him and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for ten years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1 lakh. However, the appellant contested the conviction claiming an inordinate delay in registering the case and the unreliability of the victim's testimony. The trial provided the background of the case. The victim girl deposed that after her parents left for work, the accused took advantage of her vulnerability. After the incidents were revealed through counseling at school, the case proceeded legally but concerns about the credibility of witness accounts were contested. The court justified the conviction and reduced the sentence to 7 years considering the time and circumstances of the crime.

[case 538]
The State Of Karnataka vs Syed Riyaz Basha on 27 August, 2020. This criminal appeal is filed under Section 374(2) of Cr. P. C. , praying to call for records in Session Case No. 151 of 2013 on the file of the learned 1st Additional District and Sessions Judge at Ballari for offence punishable under Section 366, 366-A, 366-B, 368, 370, 370-A, 372, 373 read with 109 IPC and under Section 3 and 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and under Section 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 9 of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. This criminal appeal is filed under Section 374(2) of Cr. P. C. , praying to set aside the order of conviction, including the fine imposed by the Hon'ble 1st Additional District and Session Judge, Ballari in Session Case No. 151 of 2013 dated 17. 01. 2017. The judgment was pronounced on 17th January 2017 and accused persons were heard on 18th January 2017 and sentenced on the same day. The trial judge found the accused guilty for the offence punishable under Sections 366, 366-A, 366-B, 368, 370, 370-A, 372, 373 read with 109 IPC and under Sections 3 and 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and under Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 9 of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956.

[case 539]
Ravi Shankar vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 7 March, 2025. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 42208 of 2024. Applicant: - Ravi Shankar. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. And 3 Others. Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J. 1. None is present on behalf of the informant even in the revised call. 2. On telephonic conversation with the Investigating Officer, learned AGA has informed that the informant is out of station. 3. Heard Sri Phool Singh Yadav, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Sunil Kumar, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material placed on record. 4. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 171 of 2022, under Sections 376(3), 328, 506 of I. P. C. and Sections 5j(ii), (5n)/6 of POCSO Act, during the pendency of trial. 5. The applicant's claim of being falsely implicated rests heavily on the absence of a reasonable explanation for the delay in the FIR. 6. The discussion also included the importance of the applicant's right to a fair trial amidst serious allegations. 7. The Bail was granted based on the circumstances and existing evidence presented before the court. 8. The court ensured conditions to prevent interference with evidence or witness tampering.

[case 540]
Shareef @ Muhammed Shareef vs State Of Kerala on 8 November, 2018. This application is filed under Section 438 of the Cr. P. C. The applicant herein is the accused in Crime No. 200 of 2018 registered at the Vengara Police Station under Sections 354(iii), 509 of the IPC and Section 11(iii) and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The victim is a minor girl studying in the VIII Standard. The applicant is a friend of her father. On 4. 8. 2018, while she was returning home after playing in the fields, the applicant along with another were found standing in front of her house. It is alleged that the applicant made inappropriate gestures and sexually colored remarks at the girl. The victim has claimed that similar gestures have been made in the past. The learned counsel for the applicant argues the allegations are baseless, claiming the victim's father is a habitual offender. The court outlines details of prior accusations made by the victim which were later dismissed as false. The judge finds merit in the applicant's defense and allows anticipatory bail, imposing conditions to safeguard the investigation. The applicant must cooperate with the investigation and avoid contacting the victim.

[case 541]
Sri G S Venkatesh vs The State Of Karnataka on 25 February, 2020. Appellant before this Court is convicted for the offences punishable under section 376 of IPC and section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as 'POCSO Act'). He is sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for a period of ten years and a fine of Rs. 25, 000/- for the offence punishable under section 4 of the POCSO Act. The case of the prosecution is that the victim (PW. 5), then aged about 15 years, was residing in a shed along with her parents. Her parents were construction labourers. On 06. 12. 2015, as usual, they had left for work leaving the victim girl alone in the shed. At about 1. 00 p. m. , while the victim girl was taking bath in the bathroom behind the Stadium under construction, the accused is stated to have committed rape on the victim girl and again on 09. 12. 2015 at about 2. 00 p. m. , he committed rape on her in the same place. The victim disclosed this incident to her mother on 11. 12. 2015 when she had pain in her abdomen. The mother of the victim PW. 6 lodged the first information as per Ex. P14 based on which FIR was registered against the appellant/accused in Crime No. 454/2015 as per Ex. P18.

[case 542]
The present application under Section 482 Cr. P. C. read with Section 528 Bharatiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 has been filed for the following main relief: 'That this Hon'ble Court may graciously be pleased to quash/set aside the Impugned Charge Sheet under section-363, 366, 376 of Indian Penal Code & 5 J(II)/6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. It is stated that a perusal of allegations levelled in the FIR lodged by the opposite party no. 2, father of the opposite party no. 3/victim, would show that the victim, aged about 16 years, at the time of lodging of FIR, was enticed away by the applicant. It is further stated that the applicant was having an affair with the victim and due to this, she has married the applicant, of her own volition. This fact is evident from the marriage certificate issued by Arya Samaj Chandipurwa. Upon consideration of the age of the opposite party no. 3/victim, who is now 18 years old and the statements of the victim being supportive of the applicant's case, this Court views that interference is required as no fruitful purpose would be served in keeping the proceedings pending. Thus, the application is allowed and the entire proceedings are hereby quashed.

[case 543]
In the case of Manu Sharma vs State Of U. P. and Another, the High Court addresses a serious charge involving sexual offences against a minor under the POCSO Act. The case centers around Manu Sharma, who is accused of raping a minor student, who was under his tutelage. The prosecution contends that the victim initially did not disclose the abuse due to threats and the nature of their tutor-student relationship. It is revealed that the victim, who was 15 years old at the time of the offence, later became pregnant, prompting her parents to file a report against Sharma. Legal representatives for Sharma argue that the relationship was consensual, citing the victim's declared age in her high school documents. The Court discusses the importance of protecting minors under the POCSO Act, referencing constitutional provisions that empower the state to make special provisions for children and maintain standards for their protection from sexual offences. After considering both sides, the Court found the plaintiff's application to dismiss the charges was unmerited, emphasizing the legal protections in place for minors under sexual abuse allegations and the need for proper judicial proceedings in such sensitive cases.

[case 544]
Sabari @ Sabarinathan @ Sabarivasan vs The Inspector Of Police on 9 January, 2019
Criminal Appeal No. 490 of 2018 is filed against conviction under Section 363 IPC and Section 5(l) r/w Section 6 of POCSO Act, resulting in five years imprisonment for the appellant, Sabari. The case arose when he allegedly kidnapped a 17-year-old girl from her grandparents' custody and repeatedly assaulted her sexually. The victims family filed a complaint after she went missing, but the victim later testified inconsistently. During the trial, several key witnesses turned hostile, questioning the evidence against the appellant. The trial court relied heavily on circumstantial evidence and presumption, raising concerns about the adequacy of the evidence leading to conviction. The appellate court found significant discrepancies and lack of solid proof, ultimately ruling that the prosecution failed to prove its case beyond a reasonable doubt. The appellant was acquitted, and the court raised important discussions on the handling of sex offenses against minors under the POCSO Act, emphasizing the need for careful consideration of consent and the resultant consequences on young individuals involved in consensual relationships.

[case 545]
Xxx (Juvenile) vs State Of U. P. And Another on 9 February, 2023. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by mother of the revisionist under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 against the judgment and order passed by Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge (POCSO Act), Baghpat in Criminal Appeal No. 56 of 2021, whereby the appellate court has rejected the Criminal appeal and affirmed the order passed by Juvenile Justice Board which rejected the bail application of the revisionist. The revisionist was 14 years 01 month and 27 days old at the time of the incident. The Juvenile Justice Board declared the revisionist as juvenile and noted that the revisionist was in protective custody in an observation home since 01. 06. 2021. The bail application was rejected due to the possibility of re-occurrence of the offence after his release. The appellate court affirmed this rejection by emphasizing the gravity of the offence committed by the revisionist. The judgment discusses the implications of the Juvenile Justice Act emphasizing the need for a careful consideration of the social investigation report into the juvenile's life and circumstances before denying bail.

[case 546]
Mrs. Praveena vs The Child Welfare Committee (North) on 5 April, 2024. W. P. No. 4843 of 2024. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 05. 04. 2024. CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. M. SUBRAMANIAM. Mrs. Praveena. .. Petitioner. Vs. 1. The Child Welfare Committee (North), Through its President / Chairman, 2. Mariyakaya Girls Home. .. Respondents. Prayer: Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Mandamus, directing the 1st respondent to consider petitioner representation dated 16. 02. 2024 and to direct the 1st respondent to pass an order to give custody of the petitioner's minor adopted child namely A. Prithika aged about 11 years to petitioner. The petitioner states that she has adopted the minor child from one Mrs. M. Preethi, who had affairs with another person. The child was adopted in the year 2012 and thereafter, it is brought up by the petitioner and another person. The minor girl is aged about 11 years and informed the School Teacher that she had been abused by the said Boopalan in the house. .. . The 1st respondent states that the child now is in safe custody in Government Home Sevasadhan. She is attending the school regularly and living happily.

[case 547]
Babai @ Divakara Bakta vs The State Of Karnataka on 27 August, 2020 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT DHARWAD BENCH DATED THIS THE 27TH DAY OF AUGUST, 2020 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE N. K. SUDHINDRARAO CRIMINAL APPEAL No. 100041/2017 C/W CRL. A. NOs. 100047/2017, 100078/2017, 100062/2017, 100175/2017, 100151/2017, 100344/2017 AND CRL. R. P No. 100206/2017 IN CRL. A. No. 100041/2017 BETWEEN: 1. AKBAR @ AKBAR BASHA S/O ABDUL SAB AGE 25 YEARS, OCC: AUTO DRIVER R/O. GOUTHAM NAGAR, DC NAGAR IN FRONT OF MASJIT BALLARI DIST: BALLARI. 2. HABEEB SAB, S/O ABBAS KHAN AGE: 32 YEARS, OCC: ELECTRICIAN R/O. D. C. NAGAR, BALLARI DIST: BALLARI. .. .APPELLANTS AND: THE STATE OF KARNATAKA REP. BY SPP HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA BENCH DHARWAD THROUGH CIRCLE INSPECTOR OF POLICE, RURAL CIRCLE, BALLARI DIST: BALLARI. .. .RESPONDENT THIS CRIMINAL APPEAL IS FILED UNDER SECTION 374(2) OF CR. P. C. , PRAYING TO SET ASIDE THE ORDER OF CONVICTION, INCLUDING THE FINE IMPOSED BY THE HON'BLE 1ST ADDITONAL DISTRICT AND SESSION JUDGE, BALLARI IN SESSION CASE No. 151 OF 2013 DATED 17. 01. 2017 PUNISHABLE UNDER SECTION 366, 366A, 366B, 368, 370, 370A, 372, 373 READ WITH 149 OF IPC AND UNDER SECTION 3 AND 4 OF PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCE ACT 2012.

[case 548]
In the case Gargian Sudheeran vs State Of Kerala, the accused, Gargian Sudheeran, is involved in two separate criminal cases concerning the disclosure of a victim's identity under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (PoCSO Act) and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The first case, registered under Crime No. 2/2023, alleges that Sudheeran disclosed the identity of the victim in Crime No. 2113/2016 on May 28, 2022. The second case, registered under Crime No. 516/2023, involves similar allegations but regarding incidents on March 11 and 23, 2023. The accused has sought to quash both cases on the grounds that they arise from the same event, arguing that the prosecution is abusing the process of law by registering multiple FIRs for the same offence. The court examined arguments from both sides regarding the legitimacy of pursuing charges in multiple FIRs for allegations that, according to the defense, should be treated as a single incident. It was determined that the cases involve distinct actions that occurred at different times, hence they are not duplicative but rather different offenses that warrant separate legal proceedings, ultimately leading to the dismissal of the quashment requests.

[case 549]
Laxman Prajapati vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 8 February, 2023. This petition coming on for hearing this day, the court passed the following: A very innocuous prayer has been made in the present petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of directions to the police authorities to initiate action against the private Respondent invoking the provisions under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences, Rules 2020. It is submitted by the counsel for the petitioner that daughter of the present petitioner is below 16 years of age, who was earlier subjected to sexual abuse by one Rajit Gurjar against whom the FIR has been registered at Police Station Kotwali, District Datia under Section 363 of the IPC. The primary investigation thereof revealed that the minor daughter of the petitioner was subjected to rape, and the private respondents being relative of the said accused with ill-intentions are misguiding the daughter of the petitioner time and again. A complaint in this regard has been made to the police officials vide complaint dated 10. 01. 2023 but till date, no action has been taken by the police authorities. Hence, the petitioner is constrained to move this Court.

[case 550]
Mrs. Praveena vs The Child Welfare Committee (North) on 5 April, 2024. W. P. No. 4843 of 2024. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 05. 04. 2024. CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. M. SUBRAMANIAM. Mrs. Praveena. .. Petitioner. Vs. 1. The Child Welfare Committee (North), Through its President / Chairman, 2. Mariyakaya Girls Home. .. Respondents. Prayer: Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Mandamus, directing the 1st respondent to consider petitioner representation dated 16. 02. 2024 and to direct the 1st respondent to pass an order to give custody of the petitioner's minor adopted child namely A. Prithika aged about 11 years to petitioner. The minor girl is aged about 11 years and informed the School Teacher that she had been abused by the said Boopalan in the house. The School Teacher provided information to the Child Help Line, who in turn visited the child and ascertained the facts. Thereafter, took the child to the Government Home. .. .In view of the fact that the child informed about her bitter experience in the house of the petitioner and abused by the said Boopalan, the child was referred to the Psychologist / Government Children Home.

[case 551]
Sri Javed Shafiq Rao vs State Of Karnataka on 10 February, 2025
This petition is filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India along with Section 482 of the CR. P. C. to quash the Complaint dated 08. 02. 2024 for offences punishable under Sections 149 and 304 of the Indian Penal Code. The petitioner argues that he cannot be held responsible for the electrocution incident that caused the death of a child, as he had already transferred responsibility to the Homeowners Association prior to the incident. The complaint essentially states that the Association and its contractors had neglected their duty to provide a safe environment, which directly led to the tragic incident involving the respondent's daughter. The prosecution suggests that several others, including the petitioner, were criminally negligent. Nonetheless, the petitioners counsel points out that there are no specific allegations against the petitioner that would warrant him being held liable for the incident, as responsibilities were officially transferred well before the occurrence. After hearing both sides, the Court determines that these proceedings constitute an abuse of the legal process and consequently quashes the complaint.

[case 552]
The appellant stands convicted and is aggrieved by judgment dated 15th October, 2015 (in Sessions Case No. 163/2013) on the charge with the gravamen of he having assaulted and committed forcible sexual intercourse with his less-than-14 years old step-daughter making her pregnant with his child and subjecting her to criminal intimidation. The trial held in the court of Additional Sessions Judge, also designated as Special Court under Section 28 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act) for New Delhi district, had arisen out of report under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr. P. C), submitted by Station House Officer (SHO) of Police Station Vasant Vihar (the police station) on 12. 11. 2013. The Special Court, by its order dated 12. 11. 2013, upon perusal of the complaint and other documents submitted with the said report (charge-sheet), had taken cognizance of offences punishable under Sections 354A, 376 and 506 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) read with Sections 4 and 5 of POCSO Act. The trial judge by proceedings recorded on 10. 01. 2014 put the appellant on trial on charge for offences under Sections 354, 376, 506 IPC read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.

[case 553]
Little Mohanapriya, aged three, died not for any fault of hers, but because she was a hindrance to the amorous activities of the appellants - the child's mother (A-2) and her paramour (A-1). The appellants have preferred this appeal against the conviction and sentence awarded by the learned Additional District and Sessions Judge, Kumbakonam in Sessions Case No. 146 of 2002 dated 28. 2. 2003, finding A-1 guilty of the offence punishable under Section 302 r/w 34 I. P. C. for which he was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs. 1 lakh and on failure to pay the fine amount, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a further period of 12 years, and also finding him guilty under Section 201 I. P. C. for which he was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three years and finding A-2 guilty of the offence punishable under Section 302 r/w 34 I. P. C. for which she was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- and on failure to pay the fine amount, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a further period of 2 years and also finding her guilty under Section 201 I. P. C. for which she was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 3 years.

[case 554]
Sunita vs State Of Haryana on 22 November, 2018. This order disposes off the first anticipatory bail application under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of accused-petitioner Sunita filed in case bearing FIR No. 50 dated 25. 9. 2018 under Sections 120-B, 354-A IPC and Section 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, registered at Police Station Women, Hansi, District Hisar. The brief allegations are made by a minor girl student of class 10th that three weeks before the registration of this FIR, co-accused Maharaj Shri Krishan Nand Ji called the prosecutrix and kissed her, telling her not to disclose it. The girl reported this to her friend and later to her father. 10 minor girls are alleged victims, six of whom have provided statements. The principal accused was arrested. The learned counsel for the petitioners argued against criminal conspiracy, stating that Sunita, as Principal, is not liable. The State opposed bail, highlighting the number of victims and the serious nature of the allegations. The court found that bail would allow potential witness influence and dismissed the application, citing the serious nature of the offences and ongoing investigations.

[case 555]
Smt. Aradhana @ Ashdeep Kaur W/O Shri. .. vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 19 February, 2025. This application under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. has been filed for quashment of charge-sheet in Crime No. 54/2024 registered at Police Station - Lahar, District - Bhind for offence under Sections 498-A, 323 of IPC and under Section 3/4 of Dowry Prohibition Act. .. The facts necessary for disposal of the present application in short are that respondent No. 2 lodged an FIR on the allegations that she got married to Gyanendra Singh Tomar on 11. 12. 2019 in accordance with Hindu rites and rituals. Her father had given Twenty Lakh rupees in cash, Mahindra XUV 300 car and household articles worth Rs. 2, 50, 000/- (Two Lakh Fifty Thousand rupees). After 15-20 days of marriage, her husband started passing taunts on trivial issues and also started alleging that her parents have not given sufficient dowry. On this issue, her husband Gyanendra, father-in-law Prempal Singh Tomar, and mother-in-law Kusum also started harassing her physically and mentally. Whenever applicants namely Aradhana and Swati use to come to the matrimonial house of respondent No. 2, they were also harassing her mentally on the issue of dowry. ..

[case 556]
Satyaprakash vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 28 February, 2025. The Allahabad High Courts judgment in the Satyaprakash case presents a critical reflection on how sensitive allegations of sexual offences against minors are approached within the legal system. The applicant's request for bail amidst serious charges under the POCSO Act incites careful deliberation about the legal implications of safeguarding child welfare. The court acknowledges the strong societal pressure surrounding such cases while reiterating the foundational legal principles including the presumption of innocence and the right to fair trial. Judicial proceedings also highlight the necessity for courts to adopt a rigorous approach towards evidence in sexual assault cases, particularly in safeguarding the rights of child victims while ensuring legitimacy in legal proceedings. Ultimately, the court's decision to grant bail is accompanied by strict conditions closely monitoring the applicant's actions to mitigate potential risks to the victim and society. This demonstrates an adherence to justice balanced with protective measures reflecting a comprehensive understanding of the ramifications of sexual crimes against minors.

[case 557]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to call for the records and quash the charge sheet filed in Spl. S. C. No. 26 of 2020, on the file of the Special Judge, (Under POCSO Act, 2012), Pudhucherry. The case of the prosecution is that the defacto complainant had love affair with the first accused and thereafter, she became pregnant. After coming to know about the same, both parents warned them, but later, they agreed for their marriage. The defacto complainant went for checkup on 11. 12. 2019 and the doctor referred her to consult the Rajeev Gandhi Women's Hospital, Puducherry as she had low blood level and anemia. On 12. 12. 2019, after checkup, the defacto complainant got admitted in the hospital. The hospital authorities informed the respondent police that the defacto complainant who is under 18 years was admitted in the hospital for treatment and she was four months pregnant and her date of birth was 12. 01. 2002. Based on the same, FIR was registered in Crime No. 91 of 2019, on 13. 12. 2019. The defacto complainant has filed an affidavit on 02. 02. 2022, stating that their marriage was solemnized on 16. 12. 2019 and they are blessed with a male child and leading their matrimonial life happily.

[case 558]
Gagan Harsh Sharma And Anr vs The State Of Maharashtra And Anr on 26 October, 2018. The principle question that arises in the present Criminal Writ Petition is whether the invocation and application of the provisions of the Indian Penal Code can be sustained in the facts and circumstances of the case when the offences committed by the petitioners are also sought to be brought within the purview of the Information Technology Act, 2000. The petitioners are two brothers. The petitioner No. 1 is an Electronic Engineer employed as Vice President-Strategy and Business Development of M/s. Bliss GVS Pharma Ltd. , a Pharmaceuticals Company. The petitioner No. 2 is a Graduate in Information Technology and a software developer undertaking activity of software development for use in the healthcare industry. They are arraigned as accused in Crime No. 0346 of 2017 registered with Shahupuri Police Station. The FIR alleges that they indulged in offences punishable under Sections 408, 420 of the Indian Penal Code and also offences under sections 43, 65 and 66 of the Information Technology Act, 2000. The petitioners have approached this Court praying for relief against the invocation of the Indian Penal Code.

[case 559]
N. Divakaran vs State Through on 10 November, 2022. Criminal Original Petition filed under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code, to call for the records in Spl. S. C. No. 15 of 2021 now pending on the file of learned Sessions Judge (Sessions Court for exclusive trial of cases under POCSO Act) at Chennai. The petitioner would submit that there is no materials to charge the petitioner for the offences under Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual offenses Act, 2012 or Section 12 of the POCSO Act; even according to the statement of the victim child, there is no statement with regard to the sexual abuse caused to her. The other witnesses had not stated anything about the commission of sexual abuse committed by the petitioner. Since the offence under POCSO Act are very serious in nature and it has stringent punishment, in the absence of any other solid materials, it is dangerous to proceed the case. Hence, I feel the powers of this Court under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. , should be invoked in order to secure the ends of justice. In the result, this Criminal Original Petition is allowed. The proceedings in Spl. S. C. No. 15 of 2021 pending on the file of learned Sessions Judge is quashed.

[case 560]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL MISCELLANEOUS No. 78541 of 2024 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -63 Year-2024 Thana- Cyber P. S. District- Sitamarhi Sidhant Kumar S/O Kumar Shankar Resident Of Village - Bahera Jahidpur, P. S -Nanpur, District Sitamarhi. .. Petitioner/s Versus 1. The State of Bihar 2. Birendra Kumar Singh, Addl. S. H. O, Cyber Police Station, Dist. - Sitamarhi. Bihar. .. Appearance: For the Petitioner/s: Mr. Ashhar Mustafa, Advocate Ms. Anita Kumari, Advocate For the Opposite Party/s: Mr. Jitendra Kumar Singh, APP. .. CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ASHOK KUMAR PANDEY ORAL ORDER 3 27-01-2025 Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and Mr. Jitendra Kumar Singh, learned APP for the State. 2. The petitioner has prayed for regular bail in a case registered for the offence punishable under sections 74, 75 of the BNS; Sections 67, 67B of IT Act and Sections 14 and 15 of POCSO Act. .. The case of the prosecution is that Birendra Kumar Singh posted at Cyber P. S. , Sitamarhi has received a letter of Government and in that he has received a mobile number from which sexual exploitation and child pornography is uploaded on social sites. .. Legal proceedings are important. ..

[case 561]
The present petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been filed by the petitioners, with a request to quash FIR No. 87, registered under Sections 363 and 376 of Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 with Police Station Reckong Peo, District Kinnaur H. P. , along with the consequential proceedings thereto. The petition has jointly been filed by the petitioners, who is accused (petitioner No. 1) as well as the child victim (petitioner No. 2) in the said case. The child victim had gone out from the house on 19. 09. 2020 in order to appear in the 10th class examination, but did not return. On the basis of the allegations, the police registered the FIR and during investigation, it was found that the accused took the child victim under the pretext of marriage. The child victim's statement revealed that she was sexually assaulted, leading to charges being framed. A compromise has since taken place between the parties, and they have married and had children together. The State, however, contests this petition, arguing against the validity of the compromise in light of the serious nature of the offences under the POCSO Act.

[case 562]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD AFR RESERVED Court No. - 80 Case: - CRIMINAL APPEAL No. - 2148 of 2019 Appellant: - Sajid Respondent: - State Of U. P. Counsel for Appellant: - Ashok Kumar Nigam Counsel for Respondent: - G. A. Hon'ble Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, J. 1. Heard Sri Ashok Kumar Nigam, learned counsel for the appellant, Sri Manu Raj Singh and Smt. Alpana Singha, learned A. G. A. for the State of U. P. and perused the record. 2. This criminal appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 20. 02. 2019, passed by Special Judge (POCSO Act)/ Ist Additional District Judge, Rampur, in Special Trial No. 46 of 2018, arising out of Case Crime No. 5/2018, under Section 377 IPC and Section 4 POCSO Act, PS Tanda, District Rampur, whereby the accused-appellant has been convicted and sentenced for the offence under section 377 IPC for ten years rigorous imprisonment and Rs. 15, 000/- fine and in default of fine six months additional imprisonment and under section 4 POCSO Act for seven years imprisonment and Rs. 10, 000/- fine and in default of fine four months additional imprisonment. It has further been directed by the trial court that both the sentences shall run concurrently.

[case 563]
Through: Ms. Meenakshi Dahiya, APP for the State with SI Ankesh
Meena, PS- Hauz Qazi.
Mr. Amit Kumar with
Ms. Shilpi Verma and Mr.
Deepak Sharma and the complainant in person.
HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE PRATEEK JALAN
1. By way of this application under Section 439 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 ["CrPC"], the applicant [hereinafter referred
to as "P"] seeks regular bail in connection with FIR No. 254/2021,
dated 15. 09. 2021, registered at Police Station Hauz Qazi, under
Section 354A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ["IPC"] and Section 10
. .. (continued). .. delivery context about bail application regarding child molestation and serious allegations against Mohit Kumar, the accusations from his wife regarding abuse against their daughter M, medical examination outcomes, and legal proceedings ongoing under POCSO Act.

[case 564]
Rajasekar vs The State Rep. By on 3 February, 2017 Crl. A. No. 176 of 2017
The appellant is in custody. This criminal appeal is filed to set aside the judgment dated 03. 02. 2017, passed by the Sessions Judge, Magalir Neethimandram, Coimbatore in Spl. C. C. No. 61/2014, in convicting the appellant herein under Section 3(a) r/w 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and sentencing him to undergo ten years and fine of Rs. 5, 000/- in default simple imprisonment for three months. The accused and victim girl, who is aged about 16 years, were friends. The victim girl is reported to be in six months' pregnancy at the time of medical examination, after having been subjected to repeated sexual assault by the appellant. The court held the prosecution has proved the charges of penetrative sexual assault beyond reasonable doubt. The law considers a person under the age of 18 as a child, thus rendering the victim's consent immaterial in this case. The victim expressed willingness to compound the offence, but the court rejected this claim based on legal precedents and provisions under the POCSO Act, identifying it as a non-compoundable offence. The appeal is dismissed.

[case 565]
Baburao S/O. Govinda Kumoti (In Jail) vs State Of Maharashtra Thr. Pso Police. .. on 2 May, 2018. .. The appellant-accused is aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 27-10-2016 rendered by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Gadchiroli in Special POCSO Case 12/2015, by and under which the accused is convicted for offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the Indian Penal Code ('IPC' for short) and Section 4 read with Section 17 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ('POCSO Act' for short) and is further convicted for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC and is sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to payment of fine of Rs. 3, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 4 read with Section 17 of the POCSO Act and to suffer rigorous imprisonment for three years and to payment of fine of Rs. 2, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC. Separate sentence for offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the IPC is not awarded. .. . The learned Sessions Judge framed charge (Exhibit 3A) for offence punishable under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

[case 566]
The instant appeal, under Section 374(2) of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (in short 'Code'), has been preferred by appellant Ramu (in short 'appellant') against the judgment and order dated 28. 02. 2015, passed by Special Judge, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short 'POCSO Act') /Additional Sessions Judge, Court No. 9, Barabanki, in Session Trial No. 652 of 2013, (State vs. Ramu), arising out of Case Crime No. 181 of 2013, Police Station Ramsanehi Ghat, District Barabanki whereby the appellant has been convicted for offence under Section 376 IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act and has been sentenced for offence under Section 376 IPC for 14 years rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs. 10, 000/- with further direction that in default of payment of fine, the appellant has to further undergo one year additional rigorous imprisonment and again has been sentenced for offence under Section 4 of POCSO Act for same sentence i. e. 14 years rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs. 10, 000/- with further direction that in default of payment of fine, the appellant has to further undergo one year additional rigorous imprisonment. All the sentences were directed to run concurrently.

[case 567]
Laljibhai S/O. Babubhai Ramjibhai. .. vs State Of Gujarat & on 30 March, 2016
IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION (FOR QUASHING & SET ASIDE FIR/ORDER) NO. 3433 of 2016
LALJIBHAI S/O. BABUBHAI RAMJIBHAI BABARIYA KODI. .. .Applicant(s)
STATE OF GUJARAT & 1. .. .Respondent(s)
MR PAWAN A BAROT, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
MR. RAJESH B CHAVDA, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
DS AFF. NOT FILED (N) for the Respondent(s) No. 2
Mr. J. K. Shah, APP for the Respondent(s) No. 1
CORAM: HONOURABLE MS JUSTICE SONIA GOKANI
Date: 30/03/2016
Rule returnable today. Learned APP Mr. J. K. Shah waives service of notice of rule for and on behalf of them. This Criminal Misc. Application is preferred under Section 482 of Cr. P. C for quashment of complaint being FIR No. I-CR No. 119 of 2012 registered with Kalavad Police Station, Jamnagar for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366 and 376 of IPC and under Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO'). The prosecutrix girl has already married the applicant, posing significant issues regarding the applicable legal standards and outcomes.

[case 568]
The victim in this case was aged 7  years on the date of the alleged occurrence. The Appeal arose out of conviction of the offence under Section 376 of IPC. The Accused is a Buddy of Lieutenant Colonel. Vivek Singh Thakur. The victim is the daughter of Lieutenant Colonel. Vivek Singh Thakur and Major. Prashasti. The victim's family left from the Bhatinda in Punjab State to Willington on the transfer of Lieutenant Colonel, Instructor Defence Services Staff College, Wellington in Nilgiris District. On July 19, 2012, the mother of the victim went shopping, leaving her children under the care of the Accused. Upon return, the mother found her daughter missing and later discovered her in another room, visibly upset. The victim disclosed that the Accused had been inappropriate with her, leading to medical examinations that pointed to sexual assault. A complaint was filed, and legal proceedings ensued, culminating in a conviction under Section 376 of IPC. The Accused appealed the conviction based on procedural irregularities and lack of concrete medical evidence. During the appellate proceedings, it was revealed that forensic examinations did not support the prosecution's claims.

[case 569]
The judgment discusses a criminal revision by a juvenile, X, representing his claim for bail under Section 12 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. The bail application had been rejected by the Juvenile Justice Board, citing concerns about the juvenile's possible association with known criminals and risks to his moral, physical, or psychological safety. The case involves serious charges under Sections 392, 302, and 411 of the Indian Penal Code. Despite the juveniles' claims of innocence and assertions that the case was based merely on circumstantial evidence, the Juvenile Justice Board and Appellate Court affirmed the rejection of bail. The court emphasized the importance of the social investigation report in making informed decisions regarding the juveniles welfare and the implications of his association with known criminals or risk factors. Finally, the court found that the previous judgments lacked proper consideration of the statutory provisions in favor of juvenile rehabilitation. Consequently, it allowed the juvenile's appeal, ordering his release on bail with specific conditions to monitor and support his reintegration into society.

[case 570]
Shafeeque vs State Of Kerala on 17 January, 2017. The petitioner is running a hollow bricks manufacturing unit. On 17. 06. 2011 at about 12. 40 p. m. , the Assistant Sub Inspector of Police, Aryanad Police Station inspected the premises of the brick manufacturing unit. He found three boys under the age of 18 years working in the unit. They were found mixing cement with gravel and sand. Out of the three boys, two were from West Bengal. The third boy was questioned and he revealed that one of the boy was aged 18 years and the other was 16 years of age. They were working in the Hollow bricks manufacturing unit for the last three months and they were being given a sum of Rs. 150/- per day towards wages. A mahazar was prepared and later a crime was registered against the employer under Section 26 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000. Investigation was conducted and final report was laid before the jurisdictional Court. The Case is now pending on the files of the Additional Sessions Court, Thiruvananthapuram as S. C. No. 779 of 2013. The said proceedings are sought to be quashed in this petition filed under section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

[case 571]
Gaurav Kumar @ Gautam Kumar @ Gaurav. .. vs The State Of Bihar on 4 April, 2024. These batch of Revisions are filed, challenging the orders passed by the Children's Court rejecting bail of the Child in Conflict with Law (hereinafter referred to as 'CICL'), who have been made accused in different criminal cases concerning heinous offences. It is alleged by the petitioner that he was falsefully implicated in a case under Section 364/120(B) of the Indian Penal Code when he was aged about 16 years and 7 months. The principle of presumption of innocence applies to any child under 18 years old, with all decisions based on the child's best interests, and any rejection of bail must be justified based on specific conditions outlined in the Juvenile Justice Act. The court emphasizes that granting bail is the rule rather than the exception, and any decision must involve a thorough assessment of the child's situation and environment. The goal is to protect the child's development while ensuring they do not associate with known criminals upon release. The balance between protecting society and respecting the rights of the child remains a cornerstone of the juvenile justice system.

[case 572]
In the court of Ashwani Kumar Sarpal, Addl. Sessions Judge1 cum Presiding Officer of Special Court under POCSO Act, (East District), Karkardooma Courts, Delhi. FIR NO. 76/14 PS Gandhi Nagar U/S 376/506 IPC & 4 of POCSO Act. The record shows that accused is in custody since the date of his arrest i. e. 31-1-2014. He was granted bail and even conditions of bail were also relaxed but no bail bond was furnished. The case of the accused was conducted initially by Amicus Curie but thereafter at his request, another counsel from legal aid was provided to him. On the basis of the prosecution allegations, the charge for offences under section 376/511 and 506 IPC as well as section 10 of the POCSO Act was framed vide order dated 5-5-2014. However after conclusion of prosecution evidence and receipt of FSL report, on the basis of an application of the prosecution under section 216 Cr. P. C. and in view of 'no objection' given by the accused, the charge was amended and converted into under section 376, 506 IPC and section 6 of the POCSO Act. Accused did not opt to recall any witness already examined even after amendment of the charge and instead pleaded not guilty to the same.

[case 573]
Rakeshbhai Kalubhai Alias Kaliyabhai. .. vs State Of Gujarat on 28 July, 2017. The present application has been preferred by the applicant - original accused under Section 389 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ('the Code'), with the prayer to suspend the substantive sentence of life imprisonment imposed on the applicant by the judgment and order dated 24. 5. 2016, passed by the learned Special POCSO Judge, Dahod in Special POCSO Case No. 45 of 2015. The applicant has been convicted for the offences punishable under Section 3(A) read with Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ('the POCSO Act') and Section 235(2) of the Code, to undergo imprisonment for life and fine of Rs. 5000/- and, in default of the same, further rigorous imprisonment of two years. The applicant has also been convicted for the offences punishable under Sections 376(1) and 376(2)(i), (j), (n) of the Indian Penal Code ('the IPC') for the violation of Section 375(1) thereof and to undergo imprisonment for life and the fine of Rs. 5000/- and, in default of the said fine, further rigorous imprisonment of two years. Both the sentences are directed to run concurrently.

[case 574]
Satyaprakash vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 28 February, 2025. This case illustrates the court's task in addressing accusations brought forth under the POCSO Act, both respecting the rights of the accused while upholding the broader intention of child protection laws. The applicant's request for bail was considered alongside serious implications of the allegations regarding a minor victim. The court engaged in a detailed analysis of the accusations, responses by both defense and prosecution, and thoroughly assessed the ramifications on the victims welfare. The court emphasized that the legal principles surrounding the treatment of minor victims must invoke a structured approach in court rulings and highlight the importance of societal reactions to sexual offenses. The decision to grant bail, while imposing conditions to mitigate risks associated with the accused's release, reinforces a larger societal obligation to maintain safeguards for children against abuse and aggression. Overall, the court's handling of the case signifies a commitment to diligent legal processes while remaining cognizant of the responsibilities towards protecting vulnerable populations.

[case 575]
Paulraj vs The Inspector Of Police on 6 July, 2015. These Criminal Appeals are directed against the judgment of the Sessions Judge/Fast Track Court (Mahila Court), Thoothukudi, in Spl. SC No. 4 of 2014, dated 06. 07. 2015. The case of the prosecution is that on 30. 08. 2013, A1 to A3 on different occasions, had individually called the victim to their houses, made her lie down on the floor undressed her full skirt and inserted the penis into her vagina and committed penetrative sexual assault and further more, A1 enticed the victim by showing obscene pictures through CD and forced her to act of such. The Inspector of Police attached to All Women Police Station has filed a final report against the accused persons examining the witnesses. The trial court, after careful perusal of the entire materials available on record found A1 to A3 guilty under section 5(l) r/w 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and each are convicted and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 2, 000/-, in default each to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 1 month. Aggrieved over the same, the appellants/A1 to A3 are before this court.

[case 576]
Satyaprakash vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 28 February, 2025. The court proceedings highlight significant legal arguments related to the credibility and timeline of allegations leading to the arrest of Satyaprakash. The FIRs delay raises questions regarding its validity, particularly in cases impacting minors as stated under the POCSO Act. The defense claims procedural delays and inconsistency in the victim's statements, as well as the absence of physical evidence from medical examinations. The rights of the accused under Articles 21 of the Constitution are emphasized; nonetheless, the court holds the need for caution when dealing with sexual offenses against minors, considering the potential trauma inflicted and the integrity of legal systems designed for victim protection. The court is required to weigh the evidence along with the legal premise that the victim's testimonial credibility is given considerable weight in sexual assault cases, reflecting the complexity of judicial processes in sensitive matters where allegations against minors are concerned. The judgment ultimately emphasizes the necessity of fair trials while protecting the victims' rights.

[case 577]
In the case of State Of Karnataka vs Sri Brahmadeva, the Karnataka High Court addressed a criminal appeal involving acquittal of an accused charged under the POCSO Act. The victim, a 14-year-old girl, alleged that the accused, her Physical Training Teacher, had abused her repeatedly from IV to VI standard. After a significant delay in reporting the abuse, the victim revealed the incident to her mother, which led to initial investigations. However, the trial court acquitted the accused based on various reasons including the lack of corroborated evidence, the testimony of alleged witnesses turning hostile, and unexplained delays in lodging the complaint. The prosecution argued the delay was due to the need for internal approvals, but the trial court found no indication that the victim was unable to report the abuse timely due to any external pressures or fear. The prosecution also failed to satisfy the legal requirements concerning corroboration of victim testimony as detailed in sections 29 and 30 of the POCSO Act. Ultimately, the appellate court upheld the trial court's decision on grounds of insufficient evidence and credible doubt about the accusations.

[case 578]
Through: Ms. Meenakshi Dahiya, APP for the State with SI Ankesh
Meena, PS- Hauz Qazi.
Mr. Amit Kumar with
Ms. Shilpi Verma and Mr.
Deepak Sharma and the complainant in person.
HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE PRATEEK JALAN
1. By way of this application under Section 439 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 ["CrPC"], the applicant [hereinafter referred
to as "P"] seeks regular bail in connection with FIR No. 254/2021,
dated 15. 09. 2021, registered at Police Station Hauz Qazi, under
Section 354A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ["IPC"] and Section 10
. .. (continued). .. discusses the ongoing legal proceedings related to child sexual offenses where Mohit Kumar has been accused by his wife of serious allegations involving their daughter, detailing the application for bail amidst contested statements.

[case 579]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD Case: - CRIMINAL REVISION No. - 1447 of 2020 Revisionist: - Kapil Opposite Party: - State of U. P. and Another Counsel for Revisionist: - Jai Singh Yadav Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Dinesh Pathak, J. Heard learned counsel for the revisionist, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the record. Instant Criminal Revision has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 13. 07. 2020 passed by Speical Judge (POCSO Act), Court No. 1, Moradabad in Criminal Appeal No. 15 of 2020 (Kapil Vs. State of U. P. & Others) as well as order dated 28. 02. 2020 passed by Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Moradabad in case crime No. 421 of 2019 under section 323, 307, 504, 506, 34 I. P. C. , Police Station- Thakurdwara, District- Moradabad. The passage discusses allegations against Kapil and the judicial process regarding his bail and rights as a juvenile. The court acknowledges the importance of the rule of law regarding minors in crimes. How should the judiciary approach situations involving children accused of serious offenses in order to ensure their rights are upheld and they receive appropriate support?

[case 580]
Mohd. Chand (Minor) Thru. Mother Roshan. .. vs State Of U. P. & Anr. on 5 August, 2021. This criminal revision has been preferred by the juvenile Mohd. Chand through his mother Roshan Begam, under Section 102 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act of 2015 (for short 'Act of 2015') against judgement and order dated 18. 2. 2019 passed by First Additional Sessions Judge/ Special Judge, Human Rights and POCSO Act, Pratapgarh in Criminal Appeal No. 09 of 2019 (Mohd. Chand Vs. State of U. P. ) and order dated 31. 1. 2019 passed by the learned Juvenile Justice Board, Pratapgarh (in short 'J. J. Board') in Bail Application No. 3 of 2019 arising out of Case Crime No. 1144 of 2018 under Sections 363, 366, 376 of the Indian Penal Code ( in short 'I. P. C. ') and Section 3/4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short 'POCSO Act'), Police Station Kotwali Nagar, District Pratapgarh. A First Information Report ( in short 'F. I. R. ') was registered at Case Crime No. 1144 of 2018 at Police Station Kotwali Nagar, District Pratapgarh on the basis of written report presented by Sadashiv Dhuriya at Police Station Kotwali Nagar, Pratapgarh. ..

[case 581]
Imran Shamim Khan vs The State Of Maharashtra on 22 January, 2019. The appellant herein is convicted for the offence punishable under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and is sentenced to suffer R. I. for 10 years and to pay fine of Rs. 2000/- in default to suffer S. I. for 15 days. The appellant is also convicted for the offence punishable under section 506(II) of the Indian Penal Code and is sentenced to suffer R. I. for 1 year and to pay fine of Rs. 500/- I. d. to suffer further S. I. for 7 days by the Special Judge under POCSO Act. The prosecution's case involved Mrs. Meena Fernandes alleging her granddaughter, a victim of sexual assault. Despite initial reporting, family dynamics and attempts at coercion led the victim to resile from her statement. Nevertheless, underlying evidence supported the charges, and the courts emphasized the importance of protecting child victims, emphasizing community responsibility in cases of sexual offenses against minors. Judicial proceedings aimed to ensure protection of the victim's rights during the legal process as highlighted by the provisions outlined in the POCSO Act.

[case 582]
In the State Of Karnataka vs R Rangaraju @ R Babu case, the Karnataka High Court dealt with a criminal appeal following the acquittal of the accused under multiple charges including wrongdoing related to domestic violence and murder. The case revolved around the death of Vimala, who was allegedly subjected to severe cruelty and later killed. The prosecution presented eyewitness accounts, including that of a child, to support their claims of murder and abetment, asserting that the accused had a history of demanding dowry and inflicting mental and physical violence on Vimala. However, the defense challenged the reliability of these eyewitnesses, suggesting that the death may have been a suicide rather than a murder. The High Court ultimately found failures in the prosecution's case, particularly regarding the credibility of the child witness and medical evidence, leading to a mixed ruling on the charges, successfully convicting the accused for Section 498A (cruelty) but not for murder. The judgment highlighted the necessity of corroborating eyewitness accounts with substantial and scientific evidence to establish guilt beyond reasonable doubt.

[case 583]
The appellant namely Rinku @ Ram Prasad, vide the present appeal assails the impugned judgment dated 22. 03. 2019 and the impugned order on sentence dated 23. 03. 2019 of the learned ASJ-01, North West, Rohini, Delhi (Special Court POCSO) in Sessions Case no. 44/2017 vide which the appellant herein was convicted for the offence punishable under Section 366 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as POCSO Act, 2012) and was sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of seven years along with a fine of Rs. 5, 000/- and in default of the payment of fine, to further undergo Simple Imprisonment for a period of three years for the offence punishable under Section 366 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and was sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of 10 years along with a fine of Rs. 10, 000/- and in default of the payment of the fine, to further undergo Simple Imprisonment for a period of six months for the offence punishable under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012, with it having been directed that both the sentences would run concurrently.

[case 584]
The instant revision petition has been filed under Sections 397 and 401 read with Section 482 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ("Cr. P. C. ") assailing the order dated 06. 08. 2022 passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge-01 (POCSO), Central District, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi whereby the applications filed by the petitioners seeking discharge in Sessions Case No. 34/2022 in FIR No. 44/2021 dated 09. 02. 2021 were dismissed, and charges were framed under Sections 323/354/354B/451/506/509/34 IPC read with Section 10 of POCSO Act against petitioner no. 1 and 3, and under Sections 451/323/506/509/34 IPC against petitioner no. 2. The brief facts of the case, leading to the filing of present petition are that a complaint was made by one 'DC' against the petitioners/ accused persons wherein it was alleged that all three accused persons, on 17. 01. 2021, after committing house-trespass, caused hurt to the complainant and her minor girl child, used criminal force and also outraged the modesty of both of them while passing filthy remarks. It was also stated that they were criminally intimidated and death threats were also extended to the complainant.

[case 585]
In the matter of reference under Section 395 of Cr. P. C. made by the learned Sessions Judge, Mahilar Court, Tiruchirapalli, in his letter in D. No. 238/2016 dated 17. 03. 2017. The Government of Tamil Nadu, under G. O. Ms. No. 217 dated 02. 04. 2013, sanctioned the constitution of 22 Fast Track Mahila Courts in 22 different districts in the cadre of Additional Sessions Judges to try the cases of offences against women. Subsequently, under G. O. Ms. No. 514 dated 16. 07. 2013, 22 posts of Additional Sessions Judges were sanctioned, known as the Judges of the Fast Track Mahila Courts to preside over these 22 Courts. Thus, by constitution, these Fast Track Mahila Courts are presided over by Additional Sessions Judges. They exercise all the powers conferred upon them under the Code of Criminal Procedure as Additional Sessions Judges. These Fast Track Mahila Courts were later on specified to be the Special Courts under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences, Act (for short the POCSO Act under G. O. Ms. No. 1087 dated 04. 12. 2013. Thus, these Additional Sessions Judges (Fast Track Mahila Courts) have been functioning as Special Courts under the POCSO Act.

[case 586]
This is yet another sad saga of a three year old girl child, who was playing with her little dog, when she was noticed by a knave man who was driven by a desire of lust upon the sight of a little happy harmless child playing in her own world. The State is seeking confirmation of the death sentence passed by District Judge-7 & Special Judge under POCSO Act, Thane in Special Case (Child Protection) No138/2013. The fact that identifiable maggots were seen crawling over the body would show that the incident of rape and death of the victim was 3 days old and this has to be read in consonance with the fact that P. W. 10 had observed injuries on the foreskin of the penis of the accused which were 4-5 days old as he was examined on 3rd October, 2013. It is the bounden duty of the courts to impose a sentence which is proportionate to the offence committed by an accused. The accused in the present case deserves death penalty, as any alternative punishment would be unquestionably foreclosed taking into consideration the inhuman and barbaric act of the accused. Hence, the death penalty awarded to the accused deserves to be confirmed by this Judgment.

[case 587]
The petitioner is the 7th accused in Crime no. 54/2020 of Chevayur Police Station, Kozhikode, now pending before the IInd Additional Sessions Court, Kozhikode as S. C. No. 860/2022. The petitioner seeks quashment of the said crime, as also, all further proceedings therefrom, on the premise that the offence alleged under Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (for short, 'J. J. Act') will not lie in the given facts and circumstances. The prosecution allegations are as follows: One Ajin, aged 6 years, who was an inmate of the Home for Mentally Deficient Children (HMDC) at Vellimadukunnu, Kozhikode, urinated while sleeping. Infuriated by the same, certain other inmates (accused nos. 1 to 4) have assaulted the said Ajin and he succumbed to death. Accused nos. 5 and 6 are the Multi Task Care Providers of the said institution, who permitted children who have attained majority to stay along with the minor children, contrary to specific instructions in this regard. The specific allegation against petitioner/A7 is that he has committed supervisory lapse in permitting major inmates to stay along with the minors.

[case 588]
Abdulla Ainulhaq Ansari vs The State Of Maharashtra And Anr on 16 December, 2021. This Appeal is directed against the judgement dated 10th October, 2019 in Special Case No. 211 of 2015. The accused was convicted for offences under Section 376(2)(f) and 506 of the IPC and under Section 5 (n) r/w. Section 6 of POCSO, sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 10 years. The case details reveal that the accused is the father of the prosecutrix. The Child Welfare Committee reported to law enforcement when the minor disclosed the sexual abuse. The Child Welfare Committee not only initiated police investigation permitting the victim's testimony to be recorded, but also ensured the filing of charges against the accused in court. The legal provisions under POCSO Act mandate special attention towards child victims, focusing on their protection and the judicial process in which they are involved, including how their testimonies influence court decisions. The evidence presented during the trial showed the emotional and psychological state of the victim, reflecting the impact of abuse and the importance of a protective legal framework for such cases.

[case 589]
Baburao S/O. Govinda Kumoti (In Jail) vs State Of Maharashtra Thr. Pso Police. .. on 2 May, 2018. .. The appellant-accused is aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 27-10-2016 rendered by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Gadchiroli in Special POCSO Case 12/2015, by and under which the accused is convicted for offence punishable under Section 376 read with Section 511 of the Indian Penal Code ('IPC' for short) and Section 4 read with Section 17 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ('POCSO Act' for short) and is further convicted for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC and is sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to payment of fine of Rs. 3, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 4 read with Section 17 of the POCSO Act and to suffer rigorous imprisonment for three years and to payment of fine of Rs. 2, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 506 Part-II of the IPC. .. . The legal provisions under the POCSO Act aim to shield minors from sexual offences, but the judgement demonstrates intricate considerations involving the victim's age and the nature of the crime.

[case 590]
Satyaprakash vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 28 February, 2025. The Allahabad High Court presents a pivotal ruling addressing the interplay of allegations under the POCSO Act and the frameworks required for ensuring victim protection. The applicants bail plea invokes various legal principles associated with the presumption of innocence, the significance of the victim's testimony, and the evolved norms surrounding minor protection laws. The court reinforces that judicial mechanisms must be both sensitive to the reality of sexual violence against minors and grounded in established legal precedents that guide courts towards maintaining societal trust and ensuring safety for children. Moreover, the decision alludes to the lingering effects of trauma on the victim, urging a cautious approach to rulings that maintains a balance between civil rights and protective measures. Ultimately, granting bail to Satyaprakash, while imposing conditions like attendance at trial and barring evidence tampering, signifies the court's attempt to handle sensitive matters with the seriousness they require and embodying a commitment to justice for minors.

[case 591]
These batch of Revisions are filed, challenging the orders passed by the Children's Court rejecting bail of the Child in Conflict with Law (hereinafter referred to as 'CICL'), who have been made accused in different criminal cases concerning heinous offences. For the purpose of proper adjudication of the case, it is appropriate to narrate the factual background in the following words: In connection with Dumariya P. S. Case No. 51 of 2022, the petitioner was aged about 15 years 7 months 29 days. He has been in custody on and from 3rd of April, 2022 in connection with the above-named case which was registered under Sections 302, 376DA and 34 of the IPC and Sections 4, 6 and 17 of POCSO Act. The CICL prayed for bail before the Juvenile Justice Board (hereinafter referred to as 'JJB'), Gaya, which was rejected on 13th of February, 2023. Against the aforesaid order, the CICL through his respective father, filed an appeal under Section 101 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 before the Children's Court at Gaya. The Court of Appeal also rejected his prayer for bail vide impugned order dated 2nd of May, 2023.

[case 592]
This is a case of child abuse. The appellant herein is the sole accused in S. C. No. 123 of 2013 on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Magalir Needhi Mandram (Fast Track Court), Erode. He stood charged for the offences punishable under Section 3(a) read with Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Section 506(i) of the Indian Penal Code. After trial, by Judgment dated 14. 07. 2014, the Trial Court has found the appellant guilty under both the charges, convicted thereunder and sentenced him to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs. 10, 000/-, in default to undergo simple imprisonment for one for the offence under Section 3(a) read with Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and imposed a fine of Rs. 1000/, in default to undergo simple imprisonment for one month for the offence under Section 506(i) of the Indian Penal Code. The trial court further directed the State Government to pay Rs. 1, 00, 000/-, as compensation, from and out of the Victim Assistance Fund. Challenging the said conviction and sentence, the appellant is before this Court with this appeal.

[case 593]
This appeal is directed against the conviction and sentence dated 29. 01. 2016, passed in S. C. No. 113 of 2013, by the learned Sessions Judge (Fast Track Mahila Court), Kanyakumari District at Nagercoil. The first accused stood charged for the offence under Sections 4, 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The second accused stood charged for the offence under Sections 294(b) and 506(i) IPC. The accused pleaded innocence and opted for trial. After full-fledged trial, the learned Sessions Judge came to the conclusion that the first appellant is guilty of offence under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and convicted and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/-, in default, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months. The second appellant is guilty of offence under Section 294(b) IPC and ordered to pay a fine of Rs. 1, 000/-, in default, to undergo simple imprisonment for one month. In respect of other charges framed against the appellants, the trial Court acquitted them in terms of Section 235(1) Cr. P. C.

[case 594]
Satyaprakash vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 28 February, 2025. The Allahabad High Court considers the implications of the charges faced by Satyaprakash under the POCSO Act, forcing an analysis of legal principles entwined with the framework established for safeguarding children against sexual offenses. The court must consider arguments raised by defense counsel versus those of the prosecution regarding the victim's age, the credibility of the FIR's claims, and fundamental rights of the accused framed by the presumption of innocence. Key to the bail decision is the judicial responsibility to clarify the potential risks to the victim and society when evaluating the nature of allegations against a minor. Ultimately, the ruling to grant bail to Satyaprakash indicates a nuanced understanding of the legal standards necessary in such cases while firmly stressing the importance of protecting minors. The court sets out clear conditions for the bail's validity aimed at maintaining integrity within the judicial process, demonstrating an overarching commitment to uphold justice within the criminal framework while protecting victim rights.

[case 595]
Dilip S/O Bhaiyyasingh Tekan vs State Of Maharashtra, Thr. P. S. O. .. . on 4 January, 2017. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY NAGPUR BENCH: NAGPUR CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 74/2015. Dilip s/o Bhaiyyasingh Tekan, Aged about 43 years, Occupation: Mason, R/o C/o Prafulla Sahu, Behind Jaiswal Bichhayat Kendra, Sipna College, Amravati, Tah. And district Amravati. .. APPELLANT vs State of Maharashtra, through P. S. O. Rajapeth, Amravati, Tahsil and District Amravati. .. RESPONDENT. The learned Additional Sessions Judge, Amravati convicted the appellant for the offence punishable under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as "the POCSO Act) and sentenced him to suffer imprisonment for life. The prosecution story revealed that during the absence of the mother at home, the appellant committed sexual assaults on the prosecutrix, threatening her to keep silent. The conviction was appealed based on the argument that the victim's age was not proven beyond reasonable doubt, and that the testimony had contradictions. The appeal was allowed, leading to acquittal under the cited sections.

[case 596]
Karnataka High Court Mallikarjun Fakeerappa Potanavar vs The State Of Karnataka on 27 January, 2025. The petitioners-accused Nos. 1 to 4 are sought to be prosecuted for the offences punishable under Sections 9, 10, 11 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Karnataka Amendment ) Act, 2016, and under Section 376(2)(n), 34 of IPC and Sections 4, 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The case of the prosecution is that, when the survivor went to the hospital for the delivery of her first child, it was noticed that the survivor was minor and her marriage was solemnized in violation of Child Marriage Act, 2006, and therefore, the accused No. 1 has committed the offence punishable under Section 376(2)(n), and Section 4 and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The survivor and her mother have expressed a desire to quash the criminal proceedings against the accused. However, the government pleader argues that the offenses are serious and should not be compounded. Ultimately, the court quashed the proceedings on the grounds that prosecuting the accused would cause further distress to the survivor.

[case 597]
The petitioners, who are the accused in Crime No. 734 of 2017 of Kodungallur Police Station, Thrissur District, registered for the offences punishable under Sections 366A, 376 and 34 of Indian Penal Code and Section 4 read with Section 3, Section 6 read with Section 5 and Section 17 read with Section 16 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2002, have filed this application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to quash the FIR, the final report submitted by the Investigating Officer and its further proceedings now pending as S. C. No. 836 of 2020 before the 1st Additional District and Sessions Court, Thrissur. Briefly stated the facts as emerge from the records are that on 23. 03. 2017 at 12. 30 p. m. the petitioners/accused have procured the victim, who is aged only 17 years, from her lawful custody and took her forcibly to the rental house of the 2nd accused and the 1st accused committed rape on her. The 2nd accused, who is a child in conflict with law also abetted the 1st accused to commit rape on her after procuring her with the 1st accused and thereby they have committed the aforesaid offences.

[case 598]
Fr. Robin Mathew vs State Of Kerala on 28 June, 2017 The petitioner herein stands indicted as the first accused in Crime No. 152/2017 of Kelakam Police Station for offences punishable under sections 376(2)(f)(n), 370, 201, 166(A), 118, 119, 506 (i), 120(B) read with section 34 IPC and section 5 (J) (ii) (1) (P) read with section 6, 8, 9(f) read with section 10, 16 read with section 17, section 19(1) read with section 21 (1) of POCSO Act and section 32 (1) read with sections 34, 75 & 80 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. It is alleged by the prosecution that, the first accused, who is a priest, sexually abused a 16 year old girl some time in May 2016. She conceived and delivered a male child on 7/2/2017 at a hospital. Crime was registered and the petitioner herein was arrested on 27/2/2017. He is in custody since then. After investigation, final report was laid on 19/4/2017. The prosecution argued that the priest had considerable influence over the child. The victim initially implicated her father, possibly to shield the priest. The possibility of the petitioner influencing the child remains a serious concern.

[case 599]
Balasaheb Alias Suryakant Yashwantrao vs The State Of Maharashtra on 22 March, 2017. ORAL ORDER: By this revision petition, revision petitioner/original accused no. 2 is challenging the charge framed by the Additional Sessions Judge for offences punishable under Sections 19 read with Section 21 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, (POCSO Act), Section 202 of the IPC and under Section 3(2)(vi) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1988. The charge questioned is for the offence punishable under Section 19 read with Section 21 of the POCSO Act, which casts duty on every person who has knowledge that an offence under this Act has been committed, to report it. Failure to do so is punishable under Section 21 of the POCSO Act. The victim girl child was taking education in a residential school where the accused was working; she reported an incident of rape to the Director of the Trust, who instead of reporting it to the police insisted on a private settlement. The prosecutorial duty under the POCSO Act is evident, as the act aims to protect children from sexual offences.

[case 600]
IN THE COURT OF VIKAS DHULL, ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE01, DWARKA COURTS, NEW DELHI. In the matter of:  State Vs. Raman Kumar, SC No. 26/2/13, FIR No. 142/13. The prosecution story in brief is that on receipt of DD No. 36A, SI Beena inquired the accused, who was brought by the complainant i. e. father of the child victim and thereafter handed over him to Constable Ratan. Thereafter, SI Beena had gone to the complainant's home where she recorded the statement of the child victim. .. After taking cognizance of the offence, the accused was summoned and on his appearance, copy of charge sheet and documents were supplied to him. The prosecution has examined in all 09 witnesses. PW1 is the Child victim. Child victim has reiterated the facts mentioned by her in her complaint. .. Evidence led on record by prosecution i. e. evidence of PW1 Child victim and PW4 Father of child victim inspires confidence and is trustworthy that accused had sexually assaulted child victim aged 08 years by touching her waist and vagina with sexual intent. Accordingly, accused is convicted for the offence under section 10 read with Section 9 (m) of POCSO Act.

[case 601]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Devendra Singh Alias Rinku vs State Of U. P. on 7 January, 2025. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 0038 of 2024, under Sections 498A, 304B I. P. C. and Section 3/4 D. P. Act, Police Station Shivkuti, District Prayagraj, during the pendency of trial. The marriage of the niece of the informant was solemnized with the applicant on 22. 04. 2019 and subsequent to it, the applicant and other family members are stated to have subjected her to cruelty for demand of dowry, thereby committed her murder on 13. 03. 2024. The applicant is stated to have given the said information to the informant on the same day at 7: 38 a. m. regarding the death of his wife. The FIR is delayed by about 11 hours and there is no explanation of the said delay caused. The post-mortem report indicates that the cause of death was asphyxia as a result of ante-mortem hanging. It was a love marriage and the deceased could not bear a child after five years of her marriage and was depressed as such and had committed suicide. The Court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed.

[case 602]
Madras High Court M. Mohamed Bashim vs The Commissioner Of Police on 1 July, 2024. This criminal original petition has been filed seeking a direction to the respondent police to give adequate police protection to the life and limb of the petitioner and his family members. The grievance of the petitioner is that the private respondents are preventing him from discharging his function as Imam in Al Muhammadhiyaa mosque and also attempted to assault him. The learned counsel appearing for the private respondents submits that the petitioner has tried to sexually abuse a small child, who has come to the Jamath for the purpose of learning Arab. Therefore, the Jamathars have agitated as against the petitioner. Considering the rival submissions made, this Court feels that it appears to be an internal affair of the Jamath. The petitioner has to workout his remedy in the manner known to law either by lodging a complaint before the Wakf Board or by filing a suit. In the event if anybody is taking law into their hands, it is always open to the petitioner to lodge a specific complaint, the manner in which, the offence has been committed.

[case 603]
In the case of Arul Daniel vs Suganya on 4 May 2022, the Madras High Court addressed several petitions filed under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cr. P. C. ) which aimed to challenge various proceedings initiated under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 (D. V. Act). The court discussed the nature of proceedings under the D. V. Act, clarifying that these proceedings are civil in nature but are dealt with under the framework of the Cr. P. C. The court recognized the complexities surrounding legal remedies when it comes to domestic violence cases, particularly the conflicting views among different High Courts regarding the jurisdiction of Family Courts versus Magistrates. The court emphasized that a petition challenging a proceeding under Section 12 of the D. V. Act is not maintainable under Section 482 Cr. P. C. and that while the jurisdiction of the Magistrate is civil, the mechanism for enforcement follows criminal procedural guidelines. The judges reaffirmed the need for proper jurisdictional understanding and the importance of statutory rights of appeal in the context of domestic violence cases.

[case 604]
Vipin Mali (Minor) Thru. Mother. .. vs State Of U. P. & Anr. on 20 July, 2021. This criminal revision has been preferred by the revisionist/juvenile Vipin Mali through his mother Smt. Pushpa Devi, under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (in short the "Act of 2015") against the judgement dated 30. 05. 2019 passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge Ist, Sultanpur in Criminal Appeal No. 55 of 2019 as well as order dated 18. 04. 2019 passed by Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Sultanpur in Case Crime No. No. 541/2018, under Sections 363, 366, 504, 506 Indian Penal Code (in short "I. P. C. ") and Section 7/8 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short "POCSO Act"). Brief facts necessary for disposal of this Criminal Revision are as follows: An F. I. R. was registered against the revisionist and four other co-accused. After investigation, the revisionist was charge-sheeted and claimed juvenility which was declared by the Juvenile Justice Board. His bail application was rejected and the revisionist filed a revision in response to the order of the court.

[case 605]
In the case of Smt Archana Patil vs State Of Karnataka on 14 August, 2024, the petitioner, Smt. Archana Patil, is seeking anticipatory bail in relation to allegations of sexual offenses against a minor under the POCSO Act. The FIR was registered based on a complaint filed by the mother of the victim, who reported that her 17-year-old son was subjected to sexual assault by the petitioner when he was 13 years old. The petitioner, who is 52 years old and a recognized artist, argued that the allegations are false and that there has been an inordinate delay in filing the complaint, which raises doubts about the accusations. The prosecution contended that the victim experienced mental trauma and only disclosed the incidents after several years. The High Court recognized the importance of the presumption of innocence for the accused while considering the severity of the allegations under the POCSO Act. Ultimately, the court granted the anticipatory bail subject to certain conditions, emphasizing that the presumption of innocence must be respected, and any significant delay in reporting such crimes must be carefully scrutinized.

[case 606]
This appeal is directed against the conviction and sentence dated 29. 01. 2016, passed in S. C. No. 113 of 2013, by the learned Sessions Judge (Fast Track Mahila Court), Kanyakumari District. The first accused stood charged for the offence under Sections 4, 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The second accused stood charged for the offence under Sections 294(b) and 506(i) IPC. The accused pleaded innocence and opted for trial. After full-fledged trial, the learned Sessions Judge came to the conclusion that the first appellant is guilty of offence under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and convicted and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/-, in default, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months. The second appellant is guilty of offence under Section 294(b) IPC and ordered to pay a fine of Rs. 1, 000/-, in default, to undergo simple imprisonment for one month. In respect of other charges framed against the appellants, the trial Court acquitted them in terms of Section 235(1) Cr. P. C.

[case 607]
The State Of Karnataka vs K. Krishnappa Poojari @ Krishnappa on 30 January, 2023 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU. DATED THIS THE 30TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2023. PRESENT THE HON'BLE MRS JUSTICE K. S. MUDAGAL AND THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE ANIL B KATTI. CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 1026/2016 (A). BETWEEN: THE STATE OF KARNATAKA BY CIRCLE POLICE INSPECTOR SHANIVARASANTHE P. S. SOMAVARAPETE CIRCLE KODAGU DISTRICT REP. BY STATE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR HIGH COURT BUILDING BENGALURU - 571 235. .. APPELLANT (BY SMT. RASHMI JADHAV, HCGP) AND: K. KRISHNAPPA POOJARI @ KRISHNAPPA Digitally signed by D S/O LATE PARAMESHA POOJARI AGE: 30 YEARS COOLIE, KORLALLI VILLAGE GOWDALLI POST SHANIVARASANTHE HOBLI SOMWARPET TALUK - 571 235. .. RESPONDENT (BY SRI. B. S. PRASAD, ADVOCATE FOR RESPONDENT; PW2 - SERVED) THIS CRIMINAL APPEAL IS FILED UNDER SECTION U/S. 378(1) AND (3) CR. P. C PRAYING TO GRANT LEAVE AND SET ASIDE THE JUDGEMENT AND ORDER OF ACQUITTAL DATED 01. 12. 2015 PASSED BY THE PRL. DIST. AND SESSIONS JUDGE, KODAGU IN SPL. C. (POCSO). NO. 37/2015 THEREBY ACQUITTING THE RESPONDENT/ACCUSED FOR THE OFFENCES P/U/S 376(2)(i) OF IPC AND SEC. 6 OF POCSO ACT. ..

[case 608]
Daniel Anandrao Gawai vs State Of Gujarat on 10 August, 2018. The applicant is seeking transfer of Special POCSO Case No. 70 of 2014 from District: Jamnagar so also seeking the trial under section 474 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is a trial before the High Court. It appears that Special POCSO Case No. 70 of 2014 is going on before the Court of learned Special Judge & Additional Sessions Judge, Jamnagar, which shall be referred to hereinafter as 'the said case'. The present applicant is charged of section 354A of the Indian Penal Code and sections 8, 9(f) and 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ('the POCSO Act' for short). The prosecution has already examined four witnesses in support of the charge. Petitioner, according to him, is a social worker and RTI activist, who has chosen to defendant himself in person and has also refused the legal aid made available by the Court. Since the applicant has prayed for urgent stay of the proceedings of the said case before the learned Special Judge & Additional Sessions Judge, Jamnagar, the following order came to be passed on 31. 07. 2018: .. .

[case 609]
Sandeep S/O. Shivappa Kakhandaki vs The State Of Karnataka on 21 February, 2025. The petitioners, who have been charge-sheeted for offences punishable under Sections 498A, 323, 504, and 506 read with Section 34 of the IPC, and Section 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, are before this Court seeking relief. The prosecution alleges that accused No. 1 is the husband, accused Nos. 2 and 3 are the parents-in-law, accused No. 4 is the brother-in-law, and accused Nos. 5 and 6 are relatives. They allegedly subjected the de facto complainant to both mental and physical cruelty and also demanded money from her parental home. The marriage between accused No. 1 and the de facto complainant was solemnized on 30. 05. 2014. The de facto complainant had previously filed a complaint making similar allegations. A perusal of the complaint indicates that, except for omnibus and general allegations, there are no specific overt acts attributed to each accused, detailing how and in what manner they subjected the de facto complainant to cruelty. In light of this, the continuation of criminal proceedings would be an abuse of the process of law.

[case 610]
Paresh S/O. Kamlesh Dhanvatkar (In. .. vs The State Of Maharashtra Thr. Pso. .. on 9 August, 2018. The appellant has challenged judgment and order dated 11/09/2017 passed by the Sessions Court, Nagpur, where he was convicted under section 354-B of the IPC and sections 8 and 12 of the POCSO Act, sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 4 years and 3 years respectively. The prosecution case is that the complainant, Sandhya Suryawanshi, reported that on 17/05/2015, the appellant took her daughter behind a temple and kissed her, showing his private part. However, the FIR was registered 4 days later due to fear of defamation. The appellant argued that the delay was fatal to the prosecution case. Nonetheless, the prosecution maintained that the complainant's fear was valid in such cases involving minors. The Court also noted that such delays are not unusual due to societal stigma attached to sexual offences. Ultimately, the Court found that the delay raised doubts about the prosecutions case and acquitted the appellant, citing lack of strong evidence and suggesting that he was falsely implicated due to a familial dispute.

[case 611]
The petitioner, U. Kalpana, has approached the court through a writ petition seeking compensation for her daughter, who is a victim of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses Act (POCSO Act). The child was abused by the accused, Baskar, leading to an FIR being filed under IPC sections. Details of the case indicate that despite the conviction of the accused, the petitioner has not received any compensation as stipulated by the POCSO Act. The petitioner seeks direction for the state to grant this compensation as per the government's scheme.
For the petitioner: Mr. Shaikh Mehrunisa
For Respondents: Mr. U. Bharanidharan and Mr. R. Murthi
Prayer: The petitioner requests the court to direct the 1st respondent to grant fair compensation to her daughter as per the Tamil Nadu government's scheme. On hearing the arguments, the court decides to issue a direction for timely consideration of the petitioner's request for compensation under the existing laws.

[case 612]
Satyaprakash vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 28 February, 2025. As the court reviews the bail plea submitted by Satyaprakash, significant emphasis is placed on previous judgments and legal standards surrounding sexual offenses, particularly against minors. The defense challenges the lack of direct evidence, citing delays in the FIR and arguing for the applicant's presumption of innocence. However, the respondent argues that the absence of physical evidence does not diminish the severity of the allegations and cites precedent cases that position the victim's testimony at the forefront of the judicial process. Central to the court's decision-making process is the principle that while the accused is presumed innocent, the nature of the accusations under the POCSO Act necessitates a thorough examination of the circumstances. Particularly, the emphasis is on judicial responsibility to afford protection to minors and the fundamental impacts of sexual crimes on their well-being. Overall, the nature of the offense, the victim's rights, and the broader implications for social justice interlink throughout the proceedings.

[case 613]
Satyaprakash vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 28 February, 2025. The court's ruling reflects broader implications for cases involving allegations of sexual violence against minors under the POCSO Act. The applicant, Satyaprakash, has been implicated in serious offenses involving a minor and is seeking bail while contesting claims made against him. The proceedings highlighted the necessity for the judicial system to address the complexities resulting from delayed FIRs, evolving victim statements and medical examinations that may not provide the expected clarity. The emphasis on the minors well-being underscores the importance of decisions that do not compromise victims safety or inhibit legal recourses for redress. Furthermore, the role of public sentiment and societal attitudes towards sexual offenses is significant; any ruling must be approached with caution to protect future victims while balancing the rights of the accused. Ultimately, the court's decision to grant bail illustrates a judicial commitment to fair process but acknowledges the persistent risk and potential for harm that the legal context brings.

[case 614]
Shri Shivaraj S/O Basavaraj Madiwalar vs The State Of Karnataka on 20 January, 2025. The petitioner-accused is charge sheeted for the offences punishable under the Indian Penal Code and the POCSO Act, where a missing complaint was filed by the mother of the survivor, leading to an investigation where the survivor, a minor, was found. It was established that she had been living with the petitioner and was allegedly subjected to forcible sexual intercourse, resulting in pregnancy. The survivor's marriage to the petitioner was subsequently registered, and both her and her mother expressed no objection to quashing the proceedings. However, the Additional Government Advocate highlighted the heinous nature of the alleged offences, emphasizing that such serious crimes cannot be compounded. In a similar case from the High Court of Rajasthan, factors were discussed that led to the quashing of proceedings based on the unique circumstances of consensual relationships leading to marriage. Ultimately, the Karnataka High Court decided that further prosecution would not serve justice and quashed the case against the petitioner.

[case 615]
The petitioner-accused is before this Court calling in question the proceedings in Spl. Case(POCSO)142 of 2024 registered for offences punishable under Sections 376(3) of the IPC, Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ('POCSO' Act) and Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. It is the case of the prosecution that the petitioner gets married to the victim on 14-05-2023. At the time of marriage, it transpires that the petitioner was 26 years and the 2nd respondent was 17 years. The marriage was performed by the parents of the petitioner, as the 2nd respondent was an orphan. After marriage, the 2nd respondent becomes pregnant and goes to get herself checked, it is then reported to the Child Development Project Officer, Malur on 29-12-2023, as the 2nd respondent was pregnant and she was 17 years and 8 months as on the said date. Therefore, it becomes an offence under the POCSO Act. The police take the petitioner into custody. On 23-02-2024 the 2nd respondent delivers a baby girl. The prosecution then file their charge sheet against the petitioner for the aforesaid offences.

[case 616]
Both the appeals have been taken up together and are being disposed off by this common judgment. We have heard Ms. Meena Singh, the learned Advocate for the appellants in both the appeals, namely, Azhar @ Md. Azhar [Cr. Appeal (DB) No. 1024 of 2017] and Jalaluddin @ Jalalu @ Jamalu; Kamaluddin @ Kamalu; Jaibun Khatoon & Baby Khatoon [Cr. Appeal (DB) No. 843 of 2017]. The State has been represented by Mr. Abhimanyu Sharma, the learned APP. Appellant/Azhar @ Md. Azhar [Cr. Appeal (DB) No. 1024 of 2017] has been convicted under Sections 448, 354A, 326A, 307 and 302 of the I. P. C. and Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The other appellants in Cr. Appeal (DB) No. 843 of 2017 have been convicted under Sections 341, 323 and 504 of the I. P. C. The victim was 15 years of age at the time of the occurrence, and the nature of injuries was found to be dangerous to life caused by chemical action. The deceased died after 83 days of the incident due to septicemia. The statement made by the victim while she was alive was recorded, and it was determined that she had been in a condition to speak.

[case 617]
Vijaya Kumar vs State By Madanayakanahally P. S. , on 8 January, 2020. This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 482 of Cr. P. C praying to quash the further proceedings in Special Case No. 534/2018 against the petitioner in Crime No. 35/2018 for the alleged offences punishable under Sections 366A, 376 of IPC r/w Sections 4 and 6 of POCSO Act and Sections 9 and 11 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Restraint Act. The petitioner-accused has agreed to take back respondent No. 2 as his wife and they are ready to reunite and live together by dissolving their disputes. It is also submitted that the compromise is without any threat or coercion, and the respondent No. 2, who has attained the age of majority, is competent to enter into a compromise. The Court considered the legality of compromises in cases involving non-compoundable offences, as laid down by previous judgments, indicating that the High Court has the discretion to quash proceedings if it aligns with the ends of justice. In this case, since both parties intend to live together, the High Court decided that continuing criminal proceedings would serve no purpose.

[case 618]
The petitioner is the second accused in SC No. 39 of 2019 on the file of the Additional Sessions Court-I, Kasaragod, arising out of Crime No. 551 of 2018 of Bekal Police Station for the offences punishable under Section 354(A) of the IPC and Section 7 r/w Sections 8 & 21(1) of the POCSO Act. The brief of the prosecution case is that the first accused, who is the ustad in the Madrasa, wherein the victim child is studying, had sexually abused the minor victim girl and the petitioner mother did not inform the matter to the police in time, and the SI of Police, Bekal Police Station registered Crime No. 551/2018 and after investigation, he filed the final report. It is pointed out that the prosecution allegation against the petitioner is false. The petitioner herein, the second accused, is the mother of the minor victim child, and it is pointed out that she was never aware about the abuse by the ustad and that she never suppressed anything from the police and that she was always looking after her child and that she had some misunderstanding with her husband and that he, in turn, given false information to the police.

[case 619]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to call for the records in S. C. No. 92 of 2022 on the file of the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Erode and to quash the same. The first petitioner is the son-in-law of the defacto complainant and the second petitioner is the driver of the first petitioner. As per the complaint, on 14. 09. 2021, the petitioner had trespassed into the house of the defacto complainant and abused her in filthy language and taken his two children. Further, at the instruction of the first petitioner, the second petitioner moved the car and hit the defacto complainant due to which the defacto complainant was sustained injury. Based on the complaint given by the defacto complainant/second respondent, the case was registered against the petitioners in Crime No. 291 of 2021 for the offence punishable under Sections 294(B) and 308 of IPC. After investigation, the 1st respondent police has filed the final report before the Principal District & Sessions Judge, Erode, in S. C. No. 92 of 2022. Challenging the said final report, the petitioners have approached this Court to quash the proceedings.

[case 620]
This case involves the Karnataka High Court ruling on a criminal petition regarding accusations under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. The petitioners include Mallesh, Mahadevamma, Rajesha, Mahadevashetty, and Rathnamma, all accused of facilitating a child marriage involving an underage girl. The marriage allegedly took place while the victim was still a minor, leading to legal actions against the petitioners. The petition seeks to quash the proceedings on the ground that the victim has now attained majority and has voluntarily chosen to live with her husband. The court examines whether the petitioners' request to quash the proceedings can be justified by their claim of a personal settlement and the changed circumstances of the victim. The court refers to a Supreme Court precedent allowing the quashing of cases in certain private nature offenses, even if they are non-compoundable, if they have been settled amicably by the parties involved. Ultimately, the High Court ruled to quash the ongoing proceedings against the petitioners, citing the evolution of circumstances that merited such a decision.

[case 621]
This petition has been filed to call for the records pertaining to the proceedings in Crime No. 17 of 2022 on the file of the respondent police and quash the same. The learned government advocate states that the case is still under investigation and that he opposed allowing this petition. On perusal of the FIR, it reveals that the respondent police had registered a case in Crime No. 17 of 2022 against this petitioner/A2 and another person who is the defacto complainant's husband for the offences under Section 9(1), 9(m), 9(n), 10 of Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Under Section 506(i) of IPC. The defacto complainant who is the mother of the victim girl has stated that her daughter who is aged about 15 years, was sexually abused by her father-in-law and by her husband and that they both threatened the victim girl not to disclose to any one. This Court finds that the FIR discloses prima facie commission of cognizable offence and as such, this Court cannot interfere with the investigation. Therefore, I find no merits and investigation in this case is to be conducted to find out the truth.

[case 622]
State vs Praveen Kumar on 20 December, 2017. The allegation against the accused is that during the 3 to 4 months period prior to the registration of the instant FIR dated 09. 03. 2016, the accused inserted his penis in the anus of the victim boy 'A' (a minor boy of ten years) and even thereafter many times in the toilet of Mc Donald and also at the stairs and stores of the Mc Donald within the jurisdiction of PS Hari Nagar. Charge for the offences under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as POCSO Act) and alternatively under Section 377 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as IPC) was framed against the accused on 07. 09. 2016. He claimed trial. Prosecution examined 16 witnesses in its favour. The victim boy 'A' categorically stated that it was not the accused who had committed penetrative sexual assault on him. The victim in the instant case has not supported the case of the prosecution against accused. Therefore, the accused is acquitted of the charge of the offence u/s 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and in alternative of Section 377 IPC.

[case 623]
Babai @ Divakara Bakta vs The State Of Karnataka on 27 August, 2020 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT DHARWAD BENCH DATED THIS THE 27TH DAY OF AUGUST, 2020 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE N. K. SUDHINDRARAO CRIMINAL APPEAL No. 100041/2017 C/W CRL. A. NOs. 100047/2017, 100078/2017, 100062/2017, 100175/2017, 100151/2017, 100344/2017 AND CRL. R. P No. 100206/2017 IN CRL. A. No. 100041/2017 BETWEEN: 1. AKBAR @ AKBAR BASHA S/O ABDUL SAB AGE 25 YEARS, OCC: AUTO DRIVER R/O. GOUTHAM NAGAR, DC NAGAR IN FRONT OF MASJIT BALLARI DIST: BALLARI. .. .APPELLANTS AND: THE STATE OF KARNATAKA REP. BY SPP HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA BENCH DHARWAD THROUGH CIRCLE INSPECTOR OF POLICE, RURAL CIRCLE, BALLARI DIST: BALLARI. .. .RESPONDENT THIS CRIMINAL APPEAL IS FILED UNDER SECTION 374(2) OF CR. P. C. , PRAYING TO SET ASIDE THE ORDER OF CONVICTION, INCLUDING THE FINE IMPOSED BY THE HON'BLE 1ST ADDITONAL DISTRICT AND SESSION JUDGE, BALLARI IN SESSION CASE No. 151 OF 2013 DATED 17. 01. 2017 PUNISHABLE UNDER SECTION 366, 366A, 366B, 368, 370, 370A, 372, 373 READ WITH 149 OF IPC AND UNDER SECTION 3 AND 4 OF PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCE ACT 2012.

[case 624]
Through: Ms. Meenakshi Dahiya, APP for the State with SI Ankesh
Meena, PS- Hauz Qazi.
Mr. Amit Kumar with
Ms. Shilpi Verma and Mr.
Deepak Sharma and the complainant in person.
HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE PRATEEK JALAN
1. By way of this application under Section 439 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 ["CrPC"], the applicant [hereinafter referred
to as "P"] seeks regular bail in connection with FIR No. 254/2021,
dated 15. 09. 2021, registered at Police Station Hauz Qazi, under
Section 354A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ["IPC"] and Section 10
. .. (continued). .. details the severe legal implications of Mohit Kumars charges, which include serious offenses towards his daughter as a compelling factor in considering his bail application.

[case 625]
Shaharbanu vs The Sub Inspector Of Police on 27 November, 2018. This application is filed under section 439 of the Cr. P. C. The applicant herein is the 2nd accused in Crime No. 149 of 2017 of the Mankada Police Station registered under Sections 376(2)(i), 376(2)(n) of the IPC and under Section 4 r/w. 3(a), Section 6 r/w. 5 and Section 17 r/w. 16 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The victim is the minor daughter of the applicant. She was aged 8 years. In her statement, the child alleged that in the year 2013 and 2014, she was taken to a lodge by the 1st accused and the child was sexually molested by him. It is alleged that the applicant actively aided the 1st accused to commit the said horrendous act. The learned Public Prosecutor has opposed the prayer, arguing that the applicant had provided all assistance to the principal accused to commit the heinous act. The applicant appears to come from the most backward strata of the society and is living in absolute penury, having been in custody since 17. 9. 2018. The application for bail now stands allowed under certain conditions.

[case 626]
The case in hand is registered on the basis of a complaint made by the Prosecutrix 'M. I. ' where in she had stated that she is residing at Darya Ganj, Delhi and that her father is an alcoholic person. The complainant further alleged that he touches her breast and upper thighs and tries to sleep with her and this has been happening with her for the last one year. It is further averred in the complaint that during that time, the complainant used to think that the Accused is her father and he is just loving and caring for her, but as she grew up, she had realized what was happening with her. On the basis of the aforesaid complaint, a case under Section 354/354A/506 IPC & Section 8 of POCSO Act was registered against the Accused Mohd. Imran. During the course of investigation, site plan was prepared at the instance of mother of complainant; Accused Mohd. Imran was arrested and was got medically examined; statement of Prosecutrix was also recorded under Section 164 Cr. PC before the learned MM and thereafter after the completion of investigation in all respects, charge sheet was filed before the court.

[case 627]
Ajay Kumar Jatav vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 6 January, 2023. This application coming on for hearing this day, the court passed the following: This is the second repeat bail application under Section 439 Cr. P. C filed on behalf of the applicant. The applicant is in custody since 22. 08. 2022 in connection with Crime No. 249/2021 for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366, 376, 506 of IPC and Section 3/4 of POCSO Act. A s per prosecution story, the applicant had manipulated the prosecutrix and on false promise of marriage had called her to his house. The prosecutrix after coming back home had narrated the whole incident to her parents and FIR was lodged. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is innocent and has been falsely implicated. Per contra, learned Panel Lawyer opposes the bail application with submissions that the stories coined by the applicant and by the prosecutrix are far from truth. Upon hearing learned counsel for the rival parties, it is directed that the applicant be released on bail on furnishing personal bond with various stringent conditions.

[case 628]
Deepak (A) Deepak Kumar vs The State Of Tamil Nadu on 7 June, 2022. .. Crl. O. P. No. 10435 of 2022. .. The case of the prosecution is that the defacto complainant who is aged about 17 years fell in love with the accused and had sexual intercourse which resulted in registration of FIR. .. . The defacto complainant is about to complete the age of 18 in another six months when the alleged offence reported. She submitted that she is no longer interested in prosecuting the accused, since she voluntarily fell in love with the boy/accused. Though said consent of the minor is not permissible under law, the very object of the POCSO Act is to prevent the sexual offence on the minor children. .. . The provisions of the POCSO Act, as it stands today, will surely make the acts of the boy an offence due to its stringent nature. An adolescent boy caught in a situation like this will surely have no defense if the criminal case is taken to its logical end. .. . Therefore, quashing of the proceedings will not affect the society, in fact it will pave the way for both the victim as well as the accused for their future.

[case 629]
P. W. 15  Karuppusamy is the victim in this case. P. W. 1  Janaki is his mother and P. W. 2  Ranjith Kumar is his father. During the relevant point of time, P. W. 15 was a Student of 1st Standard, studying in Melapalayam Government Adi-Dravidar Welfare Primary School. P. W. 15 is having the habit of taking care of his sister Aishwarya, thereby, he is not regularly attending the School. On 18. 09. 2014 when P. W. 1 and P. W. 2 went for attending regular work, P. W. 15  Karuppusamy and his daughter Aishwarya, aged about 3 years, were called by the accused and brought them to the house belongs to one Kaathayee, wherein he committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on P. W. 15 and his sister. Further, the accused threatened to kill them if they would disclose the same to others. In the evening hours, when P. W. 1 and P. W. 2 called the victims for taking dinner, they found there was a contusion in the mouth of the victims. On enquiry, P. W. 15 reported the occurrence to his parents and thereafter, on the next day morning, around 11. 30 a. m. , P. W. 1 lodged a complaint under Ex. P. 1 in Pasupathipalayam Police Station.

[case 630]
Rakesh @ Chandan vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 24 March, 2025. The present bail application under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure has been filed by the applicant Rakesh @ Chandan, seeking enlargement on bail during trial in connection with Case Crime No. 105 of 2020, under Sections 363, 366, 376, 504 I. P. C. and section 3/4 Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Police Station Sakaldeeha, District Chandauli. This is the third bail application of the applicant. The first bail application of the applicant being Criminal Misc. Bail No. 6450 of 2021 was rejected by this Court. The learned counsel for the applicant argued that the applicant has been falsely implicated. The victim's statements are contradictory regarding the incidents and her age. Additionally, the applicant has been in jail since 06. 08. 2020. The opposition argued that the victim is a minor and the consent of the victim is of no worth. After reviewing the statements and the nature of evidence presented, the court decided to allow the bail application under strict conditions to ensure justice is served.

[case 631]
X vs State Of U. P. And Another on 20 February, 2023. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his mother under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 against the judgment dated 02. 11. 2021 passed by Special Judge (POCSO) Act/ Additional Sessions Judge, Hapur in Criminal Appeal No. 39 of 2021, whereby the appellate court has rejected the Criminal appeal and affirmed the order dated 30. 09. 2021 passed by Juvenile Justice Board, Hapur. The bail application under Section 12 of JJ Act, 2015 has been rejected by the Juvenile Justice Board observing reasonable ground for believing that the guardian of the juvenile has no effective control over the revisionist and there is a possibility of re-occurrence of the offence after his release. Furthermore, he has committed the heinous offence and indulged in this activity due to lack of discipline. The appellate court has also affirmed the order passed by the Juvenile Justice Board. The bail application under Section 12 of JJ Act, 2015 has been rejected by the Juvenile Justice Board.

[case 632]
Mrs. Praveena vs The Child Welfare Committee (North) on 5 April, 2024. W. P. No. 4843 of 2024. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 05. 04. 2024. CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. M. SUBRAMANIAM. Mrs. Praveena. .. Petitioner. Vs. 1. The Child Welfare Committee (North), Through its President / Chairman, 2. Mariyakaya Girls Home. .. Respondents. Prayer: Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Mandamus, directing the 1st respondent to consider petitioner representation dated 16. 02. 2024 and to direct the 1st respondent to pass an order to give custody of the petitioner's minor adopted child namely A. Prithika aged about 11 years to petitioner. The minor girl is aged about 11 years and informed the School Teacher that she had been abused by the said Boopalan in the house. The learned counsel for the 1st respondent would submit that the child was adopted in the year 2012 and the petitioner is looking after her. Therefore, she is entitled for custody. The Child Welfare Committee-North Zone, Chennai filed a report regarding the factual aspects.

[case 633]
The present appeal arises out of the judgment of conviction dated 05. 07. 2017 and the order of sentence dated 11. 07. 2017 passed by learned Special Judge, POCSO Act, Samastipur in Sessions Trial No. 528 of 2013 arising out of Mushri Gharari P. S. Case No. 94 of 2013 registered under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act 2012. By the impugned judgment and order, the learned trial court has been pleased to convict the appellant for the offences punishable under Section 376 IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and awarded a sentence of rigorous life imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 50, 000/- for the offences punishment. The prosecution case is based on a written report submitted by the mother of the victim alleging her daughter aged about '5' years was allured and raped by the appellant. The victim's medical report showed no sign of injury, contradicting the allegations. The trial focused on evaluating the reliability of the prosecution evidence against the child witness and the established legal framework under the POCSO Act.

[case 634]
X -Juvenile vs State Of U. P. And Another on 27 February, 2023. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his mother under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 against the judgment dated 22. 9. 2022 passed by Special Judge (POCSO Act), Mirzapur. The Juvenile Justice Board has rejected the bail application of the revisionist, which has been filed by his natural guardian/mother, under Section 12 of 'JJ Act, 2015' arising out of Case Crime No. 132 of 2022. Learned counsel for the revisionist submits that the revisionist is innocent, has no criminal antecedent, and the allegations against him were general in nature. He was in protective custody since 8. 8. 2022, and there were no reasonable grounds for the rejection of his bail application. Furthermore, the necessity of a social investigation report was emphasized, and the court has observed that mandatory provisions were not properly appreciated. The judgment highlights the imperative nature of bail for juveniles and the legal obligations to ensure the rights of children.

[case 635]
In the case of M. Sai Koushik vs State Of Karnataka, the High Court of Karnataka, dated 20 January 2025, examines a petition for anticipatory bail filed by M. Sai Koushik, who is accused of serious offences under IPC and the Dowry Prohibition Act. The petition was filed after the complainant Smt. Bhavani reported being subjected to physical and mental cruelty, alleging dowry demands and forced abortion. The Court noted the allegations of dowry demands post-marriage, detailing that significant dowry, including gold and a car, was expected by the petitioner. The complainant also mentioned that she was assaulted and coerced into terminating her pregnancy. The High Court was presented with arguments from both sides, with the petitioner claiming that the complaints filed were retaliatory due to his prior divorce petition. Although there were substantial charges against the petitioner, the court decided to grant anticipatory bail under strict conditions, including his cooperation with investigations and restrictions on leaving jurisdiction to ensure the safety of the complainant and witnesses.

[case 636]
In the Supreme Court of India, the case of Ms. Eera Through Dr. Manjula Krippendorf vs State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) addresses significant legal concerns regarding the interpretation of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act). The central issue includes whether the definition of 'child' can encompass not only biological age but also mental age. Here, the appellant, Ms. Eera, is biologically 38 years old but is mentally disabled, with a mental age of approximately 6 to 8 years due to cerebral palsy. The law emphasizes protecting the child's dignity and ensuring judicial proceedings are conducted in a child-friendly atmosphere. The High Court had previously instructed necessary steps to ensure the trial was suitable for a child with such needs. The interpretation of 'child' as defined under Section 2(d) of the POCSO Act is key, where it is stated that 'child' means any person below the age of 18 years. This case deliberates the necessity of staying true to legislative intent while also ensuring the effectiveness of the legal protections intended for children.

[case 637]
Dr. L Veena vs The State Of Karnataka on 29 August, 2017 The petitioners have been charged in cases filed under various sections of the POCSO Act and the IPC. These cases originate from allegations by parents claiming their children were sexually abused at a preschool. The allegations also focus on the negligence of the school management in ensuring a safe environment for the children. There are legal discussions surrounding the validity of the charges, particularly concerning the necessity of complaints from public servants for certain offences under the IPC, specifically Section 188. The petitioners, who are staff at the preschool, argue for the quashing of these charges, citing that no due process by a public servant has occurred in the complaint filings. They express that any charges against them should not hold without proper legal basis and the court proceedings should respect the legal frameworks that govern such complaints, particularly emphasizing the POCSO Act for child protection and actions mandated to be taken by school authorities in safeguarding children under their care.

[case 638]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA KALABURAGI BENCH DATED THIS THE 01ST DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2018 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE G. NARENDAR CRIMINAL PETITION No. 200033/2018 Between: Yallaling S/o Shankerappa Mailari, Age: 35 years, Occ: Agriculture, R/o Martoor Village, Tq. Chittapur, Dist. Kalaburagi-585 228. .. . Petitioner (By Sri. Ustad Sadath Hussain, Advocate) And: The State Through Shahabad Town Police Station Tq. Chittapur, Dist. Kalaburagi Now Represented by Special Public Prosecutor, High Court of Karnataka Kalaburagi Bench-585 103. .. Respondent (By Sri. Mallikarjun Sahukar, HCGP). .. This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of Cr. P. C. , praying to release the accused petitioner on bail in Cr. No. 152/2017 of Shahabad Town P. S. Tq. Chittapur, Dist. Kalaburagi for the offences U/Sections 448, 376(2), 504, 323, 506 R/w Section 34 of IPC, pending on the file of the JMFC Court, at Shahabad, Dist. Kalaburagi. .. The gist of the complaint as lodged with the respondent-Police by the mother of the victim is that on 09. 09. 2017, she and other members of the family had left the house. ..

[case 639]
Satyaprakash vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 28 February, 2025. The court's analysis reflects an understanding of the complexities involved in cases under the POCSO Act, and the necessity to establish a secure environment for minors who have experienced abuse. The matter presented involves allegations where a minor girl was enticed away and possibly subjected to sexual activity. The legal framework surrounding the POCSO Act aims to implement robust protections for minors against sexual offenses, including strict consequences for perpetrators. While the applicants counsel argues for bail based on the absence of direct evidence, the prosecution explores legal precedents underscoring the judiciarys role in maintaining societal protection for children, which is reflected in the nature of charges and the sensitivity required in adjudication. A crucial aspect of these proceedings is ensuring that any decision made considers both the accused's rights and the paramount need to safeguard the victim, emphasizing the role of the judicial system in providing justice in cases involving minors.

[case 640]
In relation to FIR No. 60, dated 15. 3. 2013, for commission of offence, under the provisions of Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code, registered at Police Station Sadar, Una, Himachal Pradesh, accused Gurmukh Singh was charged to face trial for having committed an offence punishable under the provisions of Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code. On the strength of the evidence led by the prosecution, vide judgment dated 6. 8. 2013, passed by Special Judge, Una, Himachal Pradesh, in Case No. 3-VII/2013, titled as State of Himachal Pradesh v. Gurmukh Singh, accused was convicted of the offence punishable under the provisions of Section 4 of the POCSO Act, and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of seven years and pay a fine of `5, 000/- and in default of payment thereof, to further undergo simple imprisonment for a further period of three months. Hence, the said judgment came to be assailed by the accused by filing Criminal Appeal No. 4109 of 2013 and by the State in Criminal Appeal No. 4232 of 2013.

[case 641]
Juvenile Delinquent 'S' vs State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Home Lko. .. . on 25 March, 2025. The present criminal revision under Section 102 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 has been filed against the order dated 23. 09. 2024 passed by the learned Juvenile Justice Board, Pratapgarh wherein bail application of the juvenile revisionist has been rejected. A first information report in Case Crime No. 293 of 2023 was lodged under Sections 363, 366, 376 IPC and 3/4 POCSO Act. The prosecutrix had gone outside for toilet and did not come back after sufficient long length of time. It was found that the prosecutrix has been lured by the revisionist and was beaten and insulted by the family of the revisionist and her garments were torn and she informed about the sexual assault. .. Considering the fact that the juvenile has been in jail for more than one year and also that he has married the prosecutrix and they have a child, the revision is allowed and the orders dated 23. 09. 2024 and 18. 12. 2024 are set aside. The juvenile is released on bail under certain conditions.

[case 642]
In the case of Sayyed Usman S/O Sayyedmohiddin vs The State Of Karnataka on 15 January, 2025, the Karnataka High Court convened to address allegations against the petitioners, who were accused of participating in a child marriage. The petitioners were the President and a Member of the Jamia Masjid, and together with others, they reportedly solemnized the marriage of a minor boy on July 5, 2021. The prosecution initiated action based on a complaint from the President of the Child Welfare Committee. The law applicable to this case revolves around the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, where Sections 10 and 11 lay out the penalties for those involved in the solemnization or promotion of child marriages. The court examined the prosecution's evidence against the petitioners and found that there was no specific allegation pointing towards their direct involvement in the event nor a clear indication they were aware of the minor's status. Therefore, the continuation of legal proceedings against them was deemed an abuse of legal process, leading to the quashing of the charges against them.

[case 643]
Lalli Sharma @ Laliya @ Lalli Singh @ Lali. .. vs The State Of Bihar on 4 April, 2024. These batch of Revisions are filed, challenging the orders passed by the Children's Court rejecting bail of the Child in Conflict with Law (hereinafter referred to as 'CICL'), who have been made accused in different criminal cases concerning heinous offences. The petitioner was aged about 15 years 7 months 29 days. The CICL prayed for bail before the Juvenile Justice Board (hereinafter referred to as 'JJB'), Gaya, which was rejected. It is stated by the petitioner that he was minor on the date of commission of the alleged offence. The gravity and nature of offence are immaterial for consideration of bail of a juvenile. The Court emphasized the necessity of considering the best interests of the child based on the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. The provisions of bail in juvenile cases were interpreted to ensure that the presumption of innocence is maintained, alongside considering the specifics of each case rather than relying solely on the severity of the alleged offence.

[case 644]
Mahalakshmi vs The District Collector on 19 January, 2021. W. P. (MD)NO. 659 OF 2021. This Court ordered notice to the respondents. Dr. R. Rajalakshmi, Assistant Surgeon, after examining the minor girl, opined that her gestational age is about 10-11 weeks and that continuing the pregnancy may endanger her physical and mental health. Considering the urgency of the matter, the Court directed the termination of the pregnancy. The law states that no pregnancy of a minor, who has not attained the age of eighteen years, can be terminated except with written consent from her guardian. In this case, the minor's father is deceased, and her mother is mentally unfit. Furthermore, her uncle seeks to have the pregnancy terminated. The minor initially was unwilling but later agreed to the termination. The passage discusses the relevant legal provisions surrounding the termination of pregnancy for minors and the involvement of medical authorities. It also highlights the considerations of trauma and psychological impact due to the circumstances of her pregnancy, arising from criminal acts against her.

[case 645]
Juvenile -X vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 24 March, 2023. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his mother under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 against the judgment by the Special Judge (POCSO Act), which rejected the bail application of the revisionist under Section 12 of "JJ Act, 2015. " The Juvenile Justice Board had previously declared the revisionist as juvenile. It was submitted that the revisionist was falsely implicated and that there were several contradictions in statements provided by involved parties. The finding recorded by the court was deemed cursory, evaluating factors not based on sufficient evidence. The gravity of the offence was argued to not be a sufficient reason to deny bail. After careful consideration of the submissions from both sides, the Court found that there was no reasonable ground to believe that release would lead to the juvenile associating with known criminals, thus allowing the revision and granting bail with specific conditions for monitoring and welfare.

[case 646]
The case of X vs State of U. P. involved significant discussions regarding the rights of juveniles within the judicial system. The court highlighted how the juvenile justice system is designed to ensure the protection and rehabilitation of minors rather than punishment. The arguments presented indicated that the juvenile, who was just over 14 years old during the incident, had been held in custody following grave charges against him. The court considered whether the legal foundations used by the Juvenile Justice Board and the Appellate Court were adequate, particularly focusing on the procedural requirements pertaining to denying bail. Various sections of the JJ Act were cited which imply that a juveniles liberty ought to be prioritized unless certain reasonable grounds indicate otherwise. Additionally, the court emphasized the importance of a social investigation report in evaluating a juvenile's home environment and potential risks associated with their release into society. This highlighted the states responsibility to ensure juvenile offenders are treated fairly and justly.

[case 647]
A complaint by post was received at the Kallavi Police Station, on 10. 04. 2017 from P. W. 1, to the effect that, on 04. 04. 2017 at about 9. 30 A. M. , when P. W. 1's grandson, namely victim child, aged 4 years was playing near the house, the appellant took him by holding his hand and after some time, the victim child was found lying naked with blood in his ear, mouth and nose and the appellant/accused had committed oral penetration and even though she took up the matter with the other residents of the village, they had directed her to go to the Police Station and therefore, she has lodged the complaint. The prosecution examined one Rani, the grand-mother of the victim child and the de-facto complainant in this case, as P. W. 1. She deposed that since the child did not return home, she went in search of the child and upon hearing of wailing of the child, she found the child in the neighbour's field and when she ran and enquired her grandson, he told her that the appellant/accused had made him to lie down and by pressing his mouth made his mouth open and inserted his penis inside his mouth.

[case 648]
The present appeal has been preferred against the impugned judgment of conviction and order of sentence dated 22. 10. 2022 and 04. 11. 2022 respectively passed by Ld. Special Judge, POCSO Court-cum-Additional Sessions Judge-VI, Gaya, Bihar, in POCSO Case No. 79 of 2018 arising out of Kotwali P. S. Case No. 356 of 2018, whereby the sole appellant has been convicted for the offences punishable under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4(2) of POCSO Act, 2012 and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 20 years and pay a fine of Rs. 25, 000/- for offence punishable under Section 4(2) of POCSO Act, 2012 and in case of default of payment of fine additional rigorous imprisonment of three months. The FIR bearing Kotwali P. S. Case No. 356 of 2018 was lodged at 11: 00 O' Clock on 20. 07. 2018 against the sole accused Satyabrat Ashok @ Pappu Sharma, who is appellant herein, for offence punishable under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 on the written report of the victim on 20. 07. 2018 to the Officer-in-Charge Kotwali Police Station, Gaya.

[case 649]
This Criminal Appeal has been filed against the Judgment of conviction and sentence imposed by the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for trial of cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012, Salem in Old Special S. C. No. 10 of 2018 and New Special S. C. No. 71 of 2019. The respondent Police have registered a case in Crime No. 12 of 2015, for offence under Sections 7 and 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012 against the appellant on the complaint given by the mother of the victim child. After completing investigation, the respondent Police laid a charge sheet before the learned Sessions Judge, who framed charges against the appellant. The Sessions Judge found guilty of the appellant for offence punishable under Sections 8 r/w 7 and 10 r/w 9(i), 9(m) and 9(n) of POCSO Act and convicted and sentenced him as follows: For offence punishable under Section 8 r/w 7 of POCSO Act, the appellant was sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for three years and to pay a fine of Rs. 25, 000/-, in default to undergo six months Simple Imprisonment.

[case 650]
Vivek Tiwari vs The State Of Bihar on 8 February, 2024. .. Chandra Shekhar Jha. .. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL APPEAL (SJ) No. 3293 of 2023 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -16 Year-2019 Thana- NATWAR District- Rohtas ====================================================== Vivek Tiwari, son of Dhanjee Tiwari, resident of Gopalpur, P. S. - Kargahar, District- Rohtas. .. . Appellant Versus The State of Bihar. .. Respondent ====================================================== Appearance: For the Appellant/s: Mr. Ajay Kumar Thakur, Advocate. .. For the State: Mr. Anand Mohan Prasad Mehta, APP For the Informant: Mr. Ravi Shankar Sahay, Advocate. .. The appellant/convict further shows his complete innocence. On the basis of evidence as surfaced during the course of trial, learned trial court convicted the appellant/convict under Section 376/506 of the I. P. C. and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, .. . The appellant/convict is acquitted of the charges levelled against him. He is directed to be set at liberty forthwith unless his detention is required in any other case.

[case 651]
Smt. Mamta Tiwari vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 2 September, 2021. This criminal revision under Sections 397/401 of Cr. P. C. has been filed against the order dated 10. 08. 2018 passed by the Special Judge (POCSO Act), Gwalior in Special Case No. 86/2019, by which the charges under Sections 16 and 17 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short "POCSO Act") have been framed. It is submitted by the counsel for the applicant that the applicant is working as a Counsellor and during her routine inspection of Ashram Shanti Niketan Balika Grih, Birla Nagar, Hazira, Gwalior, the prosecutrix, who is mentally retarded minor and is staying in the Ashram informed that Jain Baba posted in the said Ashram was continuously violating her sexually. During the course of investigation, it was found that the applicant was aware of the physical violation of the minor prosecutrix, who was mentally retarded, and in spite of that, she did not take any action against Jain Baba. The Trial Court by order dated 10. 08. 2021 has framed charges under Sections 16 and 17 of POCSO Act.

[case 652]
This appeal is directed against the conviction and sentence dated 04. 12. 2015, made in Spl. S. C. No. 10 of 2015, on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Karur. The appellant is the sole accused. He stood charged for the offence under Section 5(l)(m) read with Section 6 (2 counts) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 [hereinafter referred to as ''the POCSO Act''] and Section 506(i) I. P. C. The accused opted for trial. After full-fledged trial, the learned Sessions Judge came to the conclusion that the appellant/sole accused is guilty under Section 5(l)(m) read with Section 6 (2 counts) of the POCSO Act and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1, 000/-, in default, to undergo simple imprisonment for three months. The accused was further convicted under Section 506(i) I. P. C. and sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for one year and to pay a fine of Rs. 500/-, in default, to undergo simple imprisonment for one month. Challenging the same, the accused is before this Court with this criminal appeal.

[case 653]
This appeal is directed against the conviction and sentence dated 04. 12. 2015, made in Spl. S. C. No. 10 of 2015, on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Karur. The appellant is the sole accused. He stood charged for the offence under Section 5(l)(m) read with Section 6 (2 counts) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 [hereinafter referred to as 'the POCSO Act'] and Section 506(i) I. P. C. The accused opted for trial. After full-fledged trial, the learned Sessions Judge came to the conclusion that the appellant/sole accused is guilty under Section 5(l)(m) read with Section 6 (2 counts) of the POCSO Act and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1, 000/-, in default, to undergo simple imprisonment for three months. The accused was further convicted under Section 506(i) I. P. C. and sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for one year and to pay a fine of Rs. 500/-, in default, to undergo simple imprisonment for one month. Challenging the same, the accused is before this Court with this criminal appeal.

[case 654]
The Petitioner is the accused in S. S. C. No. 4 of 2019 which is pending before the Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO), Act, 2012, at Salem, who had filed Crl. M. P. No. 189 of 2021, under Section 311 Cr. P. C. , to recall PW. 1, PW. 2, PW. 4, and PW. 9 for further examination and the same was dismissed on 29. 03. 2021 by the Trial Court. Against which, the present petition. The contention of the petitioner is that he was charged for the offence under Section 10 read with 9(m) of the POCSO, Act, 2012 and Section 4 of Tamil Nadu Women Harassment Prevention Act. PW. 1 is the mother of the victim, PW2 is the victim, PW4 is the father of the victim and PW 9 is the Investigation Officer. Though these witnesses have been cross-examined, certain vital aspects of the matter were leftover during the cross-examination. According to the petitioner, he was in prison from 14. 12. 2020 and at that time, PW. 1 & PW. 2 were examined on 21. 12. 2020. PW. 3 was examined on 29. 12. 2020 and the Investigation Officer was examined on 22. 01. 2021. ..

[case 655]
X vs State Of Nct Of Delhi (Acting Through Its. .. on 20 October, 2022. Owing to various emotional, social, and cultural factors, CSA survivors may not be able to express their feelings and experiences. The main rationale for this is that children are traumatized and are unsure of the proper words to express their encounter. CSA has long-lasting negative effects on mental health. It becomes imperative that the survivor of the crime is not overlooked and rehabilitation for the sufferings of the survivor is not overlooked. The Justice Verma committee in its report stated: "No woman in India must feel a sense of shame or stigma in the event of sexual assault. She is entitled to the redressal of that injury and that offence and she is therefore statutorily and constitutionally capable of access to the rule of law. " The prevention of sexual violence is of fundamental importance to survivors sense of justice. It entails the transformation of society into one that understands and recognizes the harms of sexual violence and that actively makes efforts to reduce its prevalence.

[case 656]
Arumugam vs State Rep By on 5 March, 2021

Madras High Court
Arumugam vs State Rep By on 5 March, 2021
Author: P. Velmurugan
Bench: P. Velmurugan
Crl. A. No. 694 of 2019
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
DATED: 05. 03. 2021
CORAM
THE HONOURABLE MR.
JUSTICE P. VELMURUGAN
CRL. A. No. 694 of 2019

Arumugam.
State rep by: -
The Inspector of Police,
All Women Police Station,
East Coimbatore,
Coimbatore District.
Respondent

Criminal Appeal filed under Section 374 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure to set aside the Judgment of Mahila Court, Fast Track, Coimbatore dated 28. 12. 2017 passed in Spl. C. C. No. 2 of 2017 in erroneously convicting the appellant herein under Section 9(m) r/w Section 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act 2012 sentencing him to 7 years rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs. 2, 500/-.

[case 657]
This petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been filed by the applicant for quashing of the criminal proceeding pending against him in criminal case bearing SC No. 129/2021 for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366, 376 (2) (n) of the IPC and Sections 7, 8, 5 (l) and 6 of the POCSO Act and Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 arising out of FIR bearing Crime No. 1037/2021, dated 29. 06. 2021, registered at Police Station- Adhartal, Jabalpur, District Jabalpur, on the instance of respondent no. 2. This petition has been filed on the ground that the applicant and respondent no. 2 - prosecutrix, both have performed marriage with each other and they have been blessed with one girl child, aged about 10 days approx. They are interested to lead a happy marriage life. They jointly filed a compromise application before the trial court in the matter voluntarily without any fear and pressure but as the offences are non-compoundable trial court has rejected the application and kept continuing the proceedings against the applicant.

[case 658]
Brajesh Kumar vs State Of U. P. And Anr. on 3 September, 2021. The present bail application has been filed by the applicant seeking bail in Case Crime No. 284 of 2019, under Sections-363, 366, 376 I. P. C. & 5/6 POCSO Act. The applicant claims to be innocent and asserts that he has been falsely implicated in this case. Initially, the case was registered under Sections 363 and 366 IPC for allegedly enticing away the informant's daughter. However, after the victim's recovery, the prosecution added charges under Section 376 IPC and the POCSO Act upon discovering the victim's age. The victim's statements given under Section 161 and Section 164 Cr. P. C. indicate she voluntarily went with the applicant and married him. The applicant's counsel seeks bail while emphasizing the discrepancies in the victim's age reported in the school leaving certificate and the evidence that will be presented in court. The Court considers the arguments, the nature of the allegations, and the circumstances surrounding the case before granting bail to the applicant with specific conditions.

[case 659]
Vikas Soni vs State Of U. P. & Another on 5 August, 2021. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH. Case: - CRIMINAL REVISION No. - 1461 of 2019. Revisionist: - Vikas Soni. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. & Another. Counsel for Revisionist: - Akhilesh Kumar Pandey. Counsel for Opposite Party: - Govt. Advocate. Hon'ble Mrs. Saroj Yadav, J. This criminal revision has been preferred by the juvenile Vikas Soni through his father, under Section 102 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act of 2015 against judgement and order dated 13. 9. 2019 passed by Special Judge, (POCSO Act), Pratapgarh. Vikas Soni claimed he was falsely implicated as he had spent over three years in detention due to theft charges. His case raises significant questions about the legal standards for bail for juveniles under the Juvenile Justice Act. In terms of legal principles concerning juveniles, what factors must be considered for assessing their eligibility for bail? How do these factors contribute to the protective measures intended for minors in the legal system?

[case 660]
G. Vijayaraj vs The State Rep. By on 7 June, 2018. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 07. 06. 2018 C O R A M THE HONOURABLE Mr. JUSTICE P. N. PRAKASH Crl. O. P. No. 3475 of 2018 and Crl. MP. No. 1541 of 2018 G. Vijayaraj. .. Petitioner Vs. The State rep. by The Inspector of Police W-8, All Women Police Station Thirumangalam, Chennai-600 101. .. . Criminal Original Petition filed under Section 482 of Cr. P. C to set aside the order dated 22. 01. 2018 in MP. No. 435 of 2018 in S. C. No. 311 of 2016 on the file of the Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Chennai and consequently, re-open and re-call the witnesses of P. W. 2 Miss Sangeetha for the cross examination of the petitioner. .. . It is seen that the petitioner is facing trial in S. C. No. 311 of 2016. .. for the offence under Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'the POCSO Act'). .. . The trial Court has permitted the petitioner/accused to re-call P. W. 1, P. W. 7 and P. W. 8, despite the order of the Supreme Court. .. . In the result, this petition is dismissed as being devoid of merits.

[case 661]
This Suo Motu Public Interest Litigation was initiated on the basis of a report in Daily Mumbai Mirror on 24th August 2010 about the inhuman condition of the Children's Home by the name Satkarm Balgriha at Shahpur, District - Thane. All the children living in the said Children's Home are mentally challenged. It was reported that recently five children died due to starvation and malnutrition. By an order dated 3rd September 2010, the First Court while initiating a Suo Motu PIL on the said report, appointed Dr. Asha Bajpai, the then Chairperson of the Centre for Socio-Legal Studies and Human Rights, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) to assist the Court as Amicus Curiae. The Government Pleader was also ordered to assist the Court. Broadly speaking, the issue concerns the Children's Homes in the State established under Section 34 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 and in particular the Homes for Mentally Deficient Children. There are various orders passed from time to time in this PIL by the First Court and other Benches.

[case 662]
This petition is filed under Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. The petitioner herein is the accused in Crime No. 967 of 2013 of the Kothamangalam Police Station registered under Sections 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Sections 23 and 34 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. The de facto complainant in the instant case is a girl aged 17 years. The parents of the victim are not in good terms. According to the de facto complainant, the petitioner herein was the counsel appearing for her mother. On 25. 05. 2013, the victim along with her mother are alleged to have attended the proceedings in a court at Kothamangalam. After the proceedings were over, they had returned in the car of the petitioner. She alleges that the petitioner made sexually coloured remarks and touched her breasts. The mother of child, who was sitting in the back seat, is alleged to ignored the indiscretion of the petitioner. Stating these allegations, a complaint was lodged on 2. 7. 2013, based on which, the subject crime was registered.

[case 663]
Through: Ms. Meenakshi Dahiya, APP for the State with SI Ankesh
Meena, PS- Hauz Qazi.
Mr. Amit Kumar with
Ms. Shilpi Verma and Mr.
Deepak Sharma and the complainant in person.
HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE PRATEEK JALAN
1. By way of this application under Section 439 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 ["CrPC"], the applicant [hereinafter referred
to as "P"] seeks regular bail in connection with FIR No. 254/2021,
dated 15. 09. 2021, registered at Police Station Hauz Qazi, under
Section 354A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ["IPC"] and Section 10
. .. (continued). .. presents the legal framework around child protection, emphasizing the judicial handling of a case involving child abuse allegations.

[case 664]
These Criminal Appeals are directed against the judgment of the Sessions Judge/Fast Track Court Mahaila Court, Thoothukudi, in Spl. SC No. 3 of 2014, dated 06. 07. 2015. The case of the prosecution is that prior three months to 30. 08. 2013, all the accused on different occasions had individually called the victim Mariselvi to their houses made her lie down on the floor undressed her full skirt and inserted the penis into her vagina and committed penetrative sexual assault and further more, A1 enticed the child by showing obscene pictures through CD and forced her to act of such. The Inspector of Police attached to All Women Police Station has filed a final report against the accused persons examining the witnesses. The trial court found A1 to A3 guilty and sentenced them under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, with a rigorous imprisonment of 10 years. The evidence presented by the victim and supported by other witnesses and the medical examination corroborates the occurrence of the crime.

[case 665]
Shankar Makaji Mashal vs The State Of Maharashtra on 26 February, 2021. This case pertains to the investigation into C. R. No. 290/2018 registered with Chandan Nagar Police Station, Pune City under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and under Sections 3, 4, 8 and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The FIR is lodged by the victim herself. At the time of lodging of the FIR, she was 18 years and 5 months of age. She had stated in her FIR that she got acquainted with one Sonu Tapkir when she was studying in 12th standard. She developed love affair with him. The investigation is carried out. The order dated 23. 12. 2020 passed by the learned Extra Jt. Additional Sessions Judge, Pune cancelled the bail granted to the Applicant. This application for quashing and setting aside the order is before this Court today. The studied conduct of the Applicant shows that he had also suppressed material fact regarding DNA report from the Court. Therefore, looking at the case from every angle, the Applicant does not deserve to be released on bail.

[case 666]
Through: Ms. Meenakshi Dahiya, APP for the State with SI Ankesh
Meena, PS- Hauz Qazi.
Mr. Amit Kumar with
Ms. Shilpi Verma and Mr.
Deepak Sharma and the complainant in person.
HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE PRATEEK JALAN
1. By way of this application under Section 439 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 ["CrPC"], the applicant [hereinafter referred
to as "P"] seeks regular bail in connection with FIR No. 254/2021,
dated 15. 09. 2021, registered at Police Station Hauz Qazi, under
Section 354A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ["IPC"] and Section 10
. .. (continued). .. discusses Mohit Kumar's bail application under the backdrop of serious allegations from his wife concerning their daughter's abuse.

[case 667]
In the case of Raju Yallappa vs The State Of Karnataka, the appellant, Raju Yallappa, was convicted for raping a 9-year-old girl belonging to a Scheduled Tribe. The incident occurred on December 22, 2014, when the accused lured the victim to a sugarcane field under the pretense of offering her a rupee. Upon hearing the victim's screams, her grandmother intervened, leading to an investigation and subsequent charges under the POCSO Act and the SC/ST Act. While the trial court convicted the accused, the defense argued that there was insufficient evidence to support the conviction, citing discrepancies in witness testimonies. However, the prosecution presented multiple witnesses, including the victim and medical evidence, sustaining the conviction despite challenges. The high court acknowledged potential issues with the conviction under the SC/ST Act, however, upheld the verdict related to sexual assault under the POCSO Act. The appeal concluded with partial success for the appellant, as certain charges were overturned, but the core conviction was preserved.

[case 668]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 15TH DAY OF SEPTEMBER 2018 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE JOHN MICHAEL CUNHA CRIMINAL PETITION NO. 7093 OF 2014 BETWEEN: 1. JAI PRAKASH NARAIN S/O LATE R. N. PRASAD, AGED 55 YEARS, OCCUPATION: BUSINESS, RESIDING AT NO. 100, 5TH CROSS, GRUHALAXMI LAYOUT, BANGALORE 560079 2. UDAY YADAV S/O SRI RAMACHANDRA YADAV, AGED 23 YARS, OCCUPATION: COOK, RESIDING AT NO. 100, 5TH CROSS, GRUHALAXMI LAYOUT, BANGALORE 560079 3. R. D. SINGH S/O RAM BILAS SINGH, AGED 57 YEARS, OCCUPATION: PRIVATE SERVICES, RESIDING AT NO. 100, 5TH CROSS, GRUHALAXMI LAYOUT, BANGALORE 560079. .. PETITIONERS AND: 1. STATE OF KARNATAKA BY HALASURU GATE POLICE STATION, BENGALURU CITY, REPRESENTED BY ITS SPECIAL PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT, BENGALURU. 2. SMT. MADHAVI W/O JAI PRAKASH NARAIN, AGED ABOUT 49 YEARS, RESIDING AT NO. 15, 5TH MAIN ROAD, GANGANAGAR, BENGALURU 560030. .. . RESPONDENTS. .. THIS CRL. P IS FILED U/S. 482 CR. P. C PRAYING TO QUASH THE FIR IN CRIME NO. 350/2014 PENDING BEFORE THE RESPONDENT NO. 1, HALASURU GATE POLICE STATION, .. .

[case 669]
Paulraj vs The Inspector Of Police on 6 July, 2015. These Criminal Appeals are directed against the judgment of the Sessions Judge/Fast Track Court (Mahaila Court), Thoothukudi, in Spl. SC No. 4 of 2014, dated 06. 07. 2015. The case of the prosecution is that on 30. 08. 2013, A1 to A3 on different occasions, had individually called the victim to their houses, made her lie down on the floor undressed her full skirt and inserted the penis into her vagina and committed penetrative sexual assault. The Inspector of Police attached to All Women Police Station has filed a final report against the accused persons examining the witnesses. The trial court, after careful perusal of the entire materials available on record found A1 to A3 guilty under section 5(l) r/w 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and each are convicted and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 2, 000/-, in default each to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 1 month. Aggrieved over the same, the appellants/A1 to A3 are before this court.

[case 670]
Satyaprakash vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 28 February, 2025. The prosecution alleges that the applicant enticed away a minor girl under the POCSO Act, leading to serious charges against him. The lack of medical evidence mentioned in the court's reasoning stems from discussions about the victim's medical examination being conducted a few days after the alleged incident, which raises questions regarding the timing and nature of evidence collection. The court expresses concern about the implications of granting bail based on the principle of 'presumption of innocence', yet must balance that against the grave implications of allegations involving minors. Furthermore, legal precedent indicates that the courts must handle such cases with diligence, focusing not only on the rights of the accused but also on the protection of the victims rights. Ultimately, the court decides to grant bail, subject to specific conditions to ensure the integrity of the trial process and uphold the legal standards required when dealing with sensitive cases involving minors.

[case 671]
The petitioner is the second accused in SC No. 39 of 2019 on the file of the Additional Sessions Court-I, Kasaragod, arising out of Crime No. 551 of 2018 of Bekal Police Station for the offences punishable under Section 354(A) of the IPC and Section 7 r/w Sections 8 & 21(1) of the POCSO Act. The brief of the prosecution case is that the first accused, who is the ustad in the Madrasa, wherein the victim child is studying, had sexually abused the minor victim girl and the petitioner mother did not inform the matter to the police in time, and the SI of Police, Bekal Police Station registered Crime No. 551/2018 and after investigation, he filed the final report. It is pointed out that the prosecution allegation against the petitioner is false. The petitioner herein, the second accused, is the mother of the minor victim child, and it is pointed out that she was never aware about the abuse by the ustad and that she never suppressed anything from the police and that she was always looking after her child and that she had some misunderstanding with her husband.

[case 672]
Challenging the order of acquittal dated 22. 09. 2017 passed by the Sessions Judge (Mahila Fast Track Court), Nagapattinam in S. C. No. 14/2015, the State has filed the present appeal. The respondent stood charged for the offences punishable under Section 6 r/w. 5(l)(m) and (j)(ii) and Section 10 r/w. 9(l)(m) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short POCSO Act) by the trial court in S. C. No. 14/2015. The case of the prosecution as could be discerned from the oral and documentary evidence is as follows: The victim (P. W. 1) is residing with her parents and her siblings at Kandiyur Village, Kutthalam Taluk, Nagapattinam District. She was studying VIII standard in 2013. According to P. W. 1, her parents are daily wagers. The date of birth of the victim is 03. 06. 2001 as per the Transfer Certificate (Ex. P3) issued by the Government Higher Secondary School, Kutthalam. P. W. 1 in her deposition had stated that during 2013, she attained puberty and the respondent, who was her neighbour, used to come down to her house whenever she was alone. ..

[case 673]
Sunita vs State Of Haryana on 22 November, 2018. This order disposes off the first anticipatory bail application under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of accused-petitioner Sunita filed in case bearing FIR No. 50 dated 25. 9. 2018 under Sections 120-B, 354-A IPC and Section 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, registered at Police Station Women, Hansi, District Hisar. The brief allegations involve a minor girl student being kissed against her will by Maharaj Shri Krishan Nand Ji and then threatened not to tell anyone. The girl confided in her friend and later her father. More than ten minor girls have come forward as victims, supported by statements under Section 164 and 161. The principal accused was arrested. The counsel for the petitioners argued against Sunita's involvement, but the State highlighted the serious nature of the allegations and potential witness tampering if bail granted. The court dismissed the bail application citing ongoing investigations and the need for protective actions for the victims.

[case 674]
Ramumajhi vs State Of West Bengal on 11 March, 2025. The instant appeal is directed against judgment and order of conviction dated 23rd February, 2010 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge. The appellant was convicted and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for life together with fine of Rs. 1, 000/- for the offence under Section 302 of IPC, and rigorous imprisonment for 3 years together with fine of Rs. 300/- for the offence under Section 324 of the IPC. The prosecution case is that on 6 th October, 2007, Lila Boti Teli lodged a complaint, with the Kranti Out Post of the Mal Police Station at Jalpaiguri, that the appellant struck a blow with a 'Kaalam Chhuri', on her mother's neck and the victim died instantly. The appellant thereafter left the house and went to the canteen of the tea factory, where he attacked multiple individuals. Investigation was conducted and the appellant was apprehended. The evidence of Suraj Teli, a child witness, and others corroborated the events leading to the conviction of the appellant for the murder committed.

[case 675]
Tanushree Sandilya Jha vs State Of Karnataka on 19 November, 2020. This CRIMINAL REVISION PETITION IS FILED U/S. 397 READ WITH SECTION 401 OF CR. P. C. PRAYING TO SET ASIDE THE ORDER DATED 02. 07. 2019 PASSED IN PCR NO. 61/2016 BY THE LIV ADDL. CITY CIVIL AND SESSIONS JUDGE (CCH: 55) SITTING IN CHILD FRIENDLY COURT, BENGALURU URBAN DISTRICT DISMISSING THE PROTEST PETITION FILED BY THE REVISION PETITIONER AND TO ORDER DE-NOVO INVESTIGATION UNDER THE POCSO ACT, 2012. The petitioner is the mother of minor child aged about 10 years. There is no dispute with the fact that the custody of the minor child is given to respondent No. 2 - father, by the Gavle District Court, Sweden. The petitioner - mother had filed an application seeking custody of the child, but later withdrew it. The petitioner presented a private complaint alleging that during her visit, the child complained that respondent No. 2 was touching her private parts and threatening her. Investigation showed that the child had denied any abuse by respondent No. 2, leading to the submission of a 'B' report.

[case 676]
Through: Ms. Meenakshi Dahiya, APP for the State with SI Ankesh
Meena, PS- Hauz Qazi.
Mr. Amit Kumar with
Ms. Shilpi Verma and Mr.
Deepak Sharma and the complainant in person.
HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE PRATEEK JALAN
1. By way of this application under Section 439 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 ["CrPC"], the applicant [hereinafter referred
to as "P"] seeks regular bail in connection with FIR No. 254/2021,
dated 15. 09. 2021, registered at Police Station Hauz Qazi, under
Section 354A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ["IPC"] and Section 10
. .. (continued). .. details how the investigation and preceding legal actions unfold within the context of serious allegations involving a minor.

[case 677]
The court's decision involved an analysis of witness testimonies, particularly the prosecutrix's contradictory statements regarding her age, her consent, and her circumstances while staying with the appellant. The examination of legal frameworks, particularly the POCSO Act and relevant court precedents, guided the assessment of whether the prosecutrix was truly a minor at the time of the incident. The court highlighted that in cases involving minors, the prosecution bears the burden of thoroughly establishing this status to uphold any charges of sexual offenses. The prosecutrix's sustenance of a clearly expressed desire to protect the appellant from legal consequences alongside her lack of consistent assertions against him weakened the position of the prosecution. As such, emphasizing the weight given to the testimonies and the need for a strong evidentiary basis to uphold sexual offense charges against the appellant underlines the complexities of cases involving perceived victimhood versus actual consent.

[case 678]
This appeal is directed against the conviction and sentence dated 04. 12. 2015, made in Spl. S. C. No. 10 of 2015, on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Karur. The appellant is the sole accused. He stood charged for the offence under Section 5(l)(m) read with Section 6 (2 counts) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 [hereinafter referred to as ''the POCSO Act''] and Section 506(i) I. P. C. The accused opted for trial. After full-fledged trial, the learned Sessions Judge came to the conclusion that the appellant/sole accused is guilty under Section 5(l)(m) read with Section 6 (2 counts) of the POCSO Act and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1, 000/-, in default, to undergo simple imprisonment for three months. The accused was further convicted under Section 506(i) I. P. C. and sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for one year and to pay a fine of Rs. 500/-, in default, to undergo simple imprisonment for one month. This appeal challenges these convictions and sentences.

[case 679]
Through: Ms. Meenakshi Dahiya, APP for the State with SI Ankesh
Meena, PS- Hauz Qazi.
Mr. Amit Kumar with
Ms. Shilpi Verma and Mr.
Deepak Sharma and the complainant in person.
HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE PRATEEK JALAN
1. By way of this application under Section 439 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 ["CrPC"], the applicant [hereinafter referred
to as "P"] seeks regular bail in connection with FIR No. 254/2021,
dated 15. 09. 2021, registered at Police Station Hauz Qazi, under
Section 354A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ["IPC"] and Section 10
. .. (continued). .. emphasizes the relevance of evidence, including testimonies, when assessing bail applications amidst claims of child abuse.

[case 680]
Xxx vs State Of Kerala on 15 January, 2021 The grievance of the petitioners centres around the investigation that is being carried out by the 5th respondent. The petitioners state that the 5th respondent demanded that vehicles should be arranged to go to Thirunelveli and arrest the 6th respondent. As requested, vehicles were arranged by the petitioners and the 6th respondent was arrested and she was brought to Munnar police station. However, her arrest was not recorded and she was left scotfree. It is further stated that the 5th respondent in her official uniform started frequenting the residential home of the petitioners to their chagrin. The 5th respondent also used to go to the school of the 1st petitioner purportedly to record his statement. This created a loss of embarrassment and psychological pressure on the minor boy. Fresh statements were recorded and the petitioners were forced to dilute the allegations. Fed up with the harassment meted out by the 5th respondent, the petitioners had to leave Munnar and started residing at Chengannur.

[case 681]
Laljibhai S/O. Babubhai Ramjibhai. .. vs State Of Gujarat & on 30 March, 2016
IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION (FOR QUASHING & SET ASIDE FIR/ORDER) NO. 3433 of 2016
LALJIBHAI S/O. BABUBHAI RAMJIBHAI BABARIYA KODI. .. .Applicant(s)
STATE OF GUJARAT & 1. .. .Respondent(s)
MR PAWAN A BAROT, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
MR. RAJESH B CHAVDA, ADVOCATE for the Applicant(s) No. 1
DS AFF. NOT FILED (N) for the Respondent(s) No. 2
Mr. J. K. Shah, APP for the Respondent(s) No. 1
CORAM: HONOURABLE MS JUSTICE SONIA GOKANI
Date: 30/03/2016
Rule returnable today. Learned APP Mr. J. K. Shah waives service of notice of rule for and on behalf of them. This Criminal Misc. Application is preferred under Section 482 of Cr. P. C for quashment of complaint being FIR No. I-CR No. 119 of 2012 registered with Kalavad Police Station, Jamnagar for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366 and 376 of IPC and under Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO').

[case 682]
. .. The present appeal is filed questioning the conviction of the appellant for the offence under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and sentenced to Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of 25 years and to pay fine of Rs. 20, 000/-, in default SI for one year. Further compensation amount of Rs. 4, 00, 000/- to be paid to the victim girl.
. .. The case of the prosecution is that on 09. 01. 2021, the Police Saifabad received a complaint Ex. P1 from P. W. 1, Dr. Kiranmai of Niloufer Hospital informing the police that the victim girl P. W. 2 was admitted in the hospital with 'battered baby syndrome' and suspected that P. W. 2 child was subjected to sexual abuse. Accordingly, a crime was registered for the offence under Section 376-AB and Section 5 of r/w section 6 of the POCSO Act. ..

[case 683]
The Karnataka High Court in the case of Mr. Vivek George Jacob vs State of Karnataka on March 27, 2024, dealt with a writ petition filed by the petitioners to quash an FIR that had been registered against them for various offenses, including dowry harassment. The allegations stemmed from a complaint by Mrs. Elizabeth George, the wife of the first petitioner, claiming continuous mental and financial abuse by her husband and in-laws. She reported that her husband had demanded dowry prior to their marriage and continuously harassed her for money after that, even taking control of her finances. The court reviewed the specific acts detailed in the complaint, noting that the petitioners had admitted to receiving a substantial amount of money and purchasing property jointly owned with the respondent. While the court found insufficient grounds against the parents-in-law (Accused Nos. 2 and 3) for trespassing and harassment, it upheld the proceedings against the husband, citing the clear evidence of abusive behavior as presented by the respondent.

[case 684]
The petitioner comes before this Court questioning the proceedings in Special C. C. No. 1283 of 2024 pending before the Fast Track Special Court-I in Bengaluru. The case stems from a complaint that claims the petitioner, a prominent political figure, is accused of sexually assaulting a minor. The petitioner argues that the allegations are baseless and stem from revenge for political reasons. However, the prosecution has presented recordings and witnesses backing up the complaint, prompting the Court to take cognizance based on available evidence. The law mandates the necessity of a sufficient basis for proceedings as reflected in various Supreme Court judgments regarding the issuance of summons. The Court emphasizes that a magistrate must record reasons for the order of cognizance and process issuance, and failing to do so could render the order void. Thus, while discussing the implications of the proceedings against the petitioner, it is established that judicial scrutiny is necessary, especially given the serious nature of the allegations.

[case 685]
These Criminal Appeals are directed against the judgment of the Sessions Judge/Fast Track Court (Mahila Court), Thoothukudi, in Spl. SC No. 4 of 2014, dated 06. 07. 2015. The case of the prosecution is that on 30. 08. 2013, A1 to A3 on different occasions, had individually called the victim to their houses, made her lie down on the floor undressed her full skirt and inserted the penis into her vagina and committed penetrative sexual assault and further more, A1 enticed the victim by showing obscene pictures through CD and forced her to act of such. The Inspector of Police attached to All Women Police Station has filed a final report against the accused persons examining the witnesses. The trial court, after careful perusal of the entire materials available on record found A1 to A3 guilty under section 5(l) r/w 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and each are convicted and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 2, 000/-, in default each to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 1 month.

[case 686]
The Petitioner has filed this Writ Petition seeking Writ of Mandamus directing the Respondents 1 and 2 to direct further / fresh / de-nova / re-investigation by some other investigation agency, such as, the third respondent based on the Petitioners' application dated 25. 7. 2022 and to dispose of the same within the stipulated period. Meanwhile, there was a dispute in the Child Welfare Committee between A2/Berlin Jose and the Child Welfare Committee regarding mismanagement of funds. The victim girl fell ill and was treated in the hospital, where she was diagnosed as suffering from symptoms of brain fever and suspected sexual abuse. The mother of the victim had only stated that her daughter had informed that the Petitioners herein used to touch the victim girl and was alleged to have beaten her. The statement of the minor victim girl is attracting the provisions of POCSO Act. The trial Court is ready to proceed with the trial. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor submitted that there are incriminating materials against the Petitioners.

[case 687]
Naveen And Ors vs The State Of Karnataka And Anr on 22 August, 2024. This petition is filed by the petitioners / accused Nos. 1 to 4 under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. for quashing the criminal proceedings in C. C. No. 3067/2024 pending on the file of IV Additional Civil Judge and JMFC Court, at Vijayapura, arising out of Crime No. 192/2023, registered by the Women Police Station, at Vijayapura for the offences punishable under Sections 498(A), 323, 504 and 506 read with Section 34 of IPC and under Section 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act. The case of the prosecution is that the complainant has filed a complaint before the police alleging that her marriage with accused No. 1 was solemnized on 21. 11. 2021 in front of house of the accused persons. The accused persons started demanding additional dowry, and they have harassed the complainant both verbally and physically, leading her to file a complaint. The discussion involves several testimonies and circumstances around the case which would have implications for the accused based on evidence presented.

[case 688]
Neelam vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 20 April, 2023. .. The case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short, 'the Act of 2012') is not a private dispute or an offence of a kind that may be so limited to the interest of the informant and the accused, that the State may not have much to say about. To the contrary, the Act of 2012 is a special statute, which has been enacted with objects and reasons that read: "STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS. .. " It is, therefore, proposed to enact a self-contained comprehensive legislation inter alia to provide for protection of children from the offences of sexual assault, sexual harassment and pornography with due regard for safeguarding the interest and well-being of the child at every stage of the judicial process, incorporating child-friendly procedures for reporting, recording of evidence, investigation and trial of offences. The Bill would contribute to enforcement of the right of all children to safety, security and protection from sexual abuse and exploitation.

[case 689]
Sangita Devi @ Sangeeta Devi vs The State Of Bihar on 23 January, 2025. These two appeals have been preferred for setting aside the judgment of conviction dated 18. 04. 2022 and the order of sentence dated 22. 04. 2022 passed by learned Exclusive Special Court, POCSO-cum-ADJ-VI, Vaishali at Hajipur whereby and whereunder the learned trial court has been pleased to convict the appellants Sangeeta Devi and Sanjeet Paswan for the offences punishable under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act as well as under the Indian Penal Code. The prosecution story is based on the written application of the victim, who has stated that her father is mentally sick and her mother died eight years ago. She is being taken care of by her aunt. The accused Sanjeet Paswan is married and has two children. The accused Sanjeeta Devi allured her to go to Sanjeet Paswan's house where she was raped repeatedly and became pregnant. A case was registered after the victim disclosed the abuse, and the court held the accused liable under the POCSO Act and IPC.

[case 690]
Sri Sanjay B Patil vs State Of Karnataka on 22 November, 2024
. .. proceedings initiated against the petitioners which is pending on the file of 42nd ACMM (SPECIAL COURT TO DEAL WITH CRIMINAL CASES RELATED TO MP'S/MLA'S AS TRIABLE BY MAGISTRATE IN STATE OF KARNATAKA). ..
The petitioners are before this Court calling in question the proceedings in C. C. No. 14396 of 2022, registered for offences punishable under Sections 5(1) and 5(4) of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020. .. The other offence alleged is under Section 75 of the Act. Section 75 of the Act reads as follows: "75. Punishment for cruelty to child. --Whoever, having the actual charge of, or control over, a child, assaults, abandons, abuses, exposes or wilfully neglects the child or causes or procures the child to be assaulted, abandoned, abused, exposed or neglected in a manner likely to cause such child unnecessary mental or physical suffering, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine of one lakh rupees or with both. ..

[case 691]
Sri. P. M. Robin vs The State Of Karnataka on 11 February, 2020. This criminal petition is filed under Section 438 of Cr. P. C praying to enlarge the petitioners on bail in the event of their arrest in Crime No. 1/2020 of Madikeri Town P. S. , Kodagu for the offences punishable under Sections 80 & 81 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act and Section 21(1) of POCSO Act and Section 370(4), 370(6), 465, 468, 471 read with 34 of IPC. The Deputy Director of Child and Women Development, Madikeri lodged a complaint alleging that while she was working as Aaya in Ashwini Hospital, a minor girl gave birth to a child and the mother refused to take the child. The child was given to the petitioners by A1 and A2. The allegations made in the FIR prima facie attract Sections 80 and 81 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. The offences are punishable with a maximum punishment of up to three years. Hence, custodial interrogation of the petitioners is not necessary for the purpose of further investigation.

[case 692]
Mariyappan @ Mari vs State Of Kerala on 29 March, 2021 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM PRESENT THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE K. HARIPAL MONDAY, THE 29TH DAY OF MARCH 2021 / 8TH CHAITHRA, 1943 CRL. A. No. 514 OF 2020 AGAINST THE JUDGMENT IN SC 91/2018 DATED 06-02-2019 OF SPECIAL COURT UNDER POCSO ACT, ALAPPUZHA. The appellant faced charges under Section 376(2)(i)(j)(n) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 5(j)(ii)(l)(q) read with Section 6 of the PoCSO Act. The precise allegation against the appellant is that he had tied a yellow thread around the neck of a 15-year-old minor victim, CW1, at the Pudalamadaswamy temple, making her believe that he had married her. Subsequently, he committed continuous acts of sexual intercourse with her, resulting in her pregnancy. The judgment discusses the legal procedures followed, the evidence presented, and the arguments from both the appellant and the prosecution. The court ultimately found that the conviction was based on insufficient evidence and terminated the appeal in favor of the appellant.

[case 693]
The case of the appellant is that he married the respondent on 10. 07. 2013 and they both lived together hardly for six months. The respondent did not discharge her duty as a wife and assist him in his daily routine. When she was questioned about the same, she started scolding him in filthy language and there was quarrel between them leading to registration of a criminal complaint. Meanwhile, the respondent also had her own way of life by staying away from the matrimonial home. In this regard, All Women Police Station, Srivilliputtur had enquired the complaint on 03. 10. 2014. They found that the allegation of the respondent is false and closed the complaint as 'mistake of fact'. Therefore, on the ground of cruelty, divorce was sought for by the appellant. The same was opposed by the respondent stating that the allegations of not behaving as a dutiful wife is false. The parents of the appellant used to grab her money and property and they used to abuse her for not bearing a child. She was also physically attacked besides demand of dowry.

[case 694]
State vs. Rameshwar Dayal on 7 April, 2015. IN THE COURT OF VIKAS DHULL, ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE01, DWARKA COURTS, NEW DELHI. In the matter of: SC No. : 07/02/2013 FIR No. : 346/2012 Police Station: Palam Village Under Section: 6 read with Section 5 (L) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and 342/506 of Indian Penal Code, 1860. The prosecution story in brief is that on 19. 12. 2012, Complainant/Child victim alongwith his father had gone to Police Station Palam Village where he got recorded his statement against the accused. The name of child victim is being withheld to protect his identity u/s 33(7) of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as POCSO Act). In his complaint, Child victim had stated that when he was studying in 6th class, accused was staying as a tenant in front of his house, who used to meet him daily in Pakora Park, Nasirpur. Child victim had stated that accused used to talk to him sweetly and used to make him drink pepsi and used to give him money. ..

[case 695]
The appellant stands convicted and is aggrieved by judgment dated 15th October, 2015 (in Sessions Case No. 163/2013) on the charge with the gravamen of he having assaulted and committed forcible sexual intercourse with his less-than-14 years old step-daughter making her pregnant with his child and subjecting her to criminal intimidation. The trial held in the court of Additional Sessions Judge, also designated as Special Court under Section 28 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act) for New Delhi district, had arisen out of report under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr. P. C), submitted by Station House Officer (SHO) of Police Station Vasant Vihar (the police station) on 12. 11. 2013. The Special Court, by its order dated 12. 11. 2013, upon perusal of the complaint and other documents submitted with the said report (charge-sheet), had taken cognizance of offences punishable under Sections 354A, 376 and 506 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) read with Sections 4 and 5 of POCSO Act.

[case 696]
In the matter of:  SC No. : 62/02/13 FIR No. : 127/13 Police Station: Dwarka South Case ID No. : 02405R0233062013 Under Section: u/s 342/34 & U/s 323/34, U/s 109 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and U/s 4 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The prosecution case outlines that on 28. 04. 2013, a complaint was received regarding a quarrel involving a child victim. Following the reception of this information, officers arrived at the scene where the child revealed that she had been subjected to abuse by her relatives. An FIR was subsequently filed, and after thorough investigation, essential statements and witness testimonies were gathered. However, during the trial, the child victim retracted her allegations, claiming external influence in her actions. The court found insufficient evidence against the accused and acquitted them. This scenario illustrates the complexities often faced in child abuse cases, particularly the implications of testimonies under pressure and the need for child-sensitive legal frameworks.

[case 697]
The prosecution story in brief is that on 09. 04. 2013 on receipt of DD No. 32A, IO SI Krishan Kumar along with Constable Mahesh had gone to H. No. B-116, Gali No. 24, Mahavir Enclave, Part-II, Delhi where they met complainant/child victim, who made a written complaint to them. In her written complaint, the complainant/child victim had stated that she is a student of 10th class and accused Sagar, who was staying in the same gali in which she was residing, used to constantly stalk her anywhere and made her going outside difficult. Complainant/child victim stated that on 09. 04. 2013 at about 4. 00 p. m. , accused after standing in front of her house, used obscene and abusive language. Complainant/child victim stated that they have reported the matter to his family, but the accused did not understand. Complainant/child victim stated that the accused used to stalk her till her school, misbehaved with her in gali, used abusive language in the gali of her relatives, used to threaten to kill her brother and used wrong language to her sisters.

[case 698]
The legal framework under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015 emphasizes the necessity of safeguarding juvenile offenders from negative influences and allows for their rehabilitation rather than punitive action. The passage specifies that a juvenile arrested or detained should be released on bail unless there are reasonable grounds that their release would expose them to risk. To evaluate bail pleas for juveniles, courts must analyze the nature of the offense, the minors role, their family background, and their associations. This holistic approach is vital as highlighted in recent judgments where the courts emphasized that juvenile cases ought to be handled with care, focusing on rehabilitation. Moreover, the passage touches on a significant ruling by the Supreme Court which underlines the necessity to uphold the rights of juveniles against wrongful detention. This judgment serves as a crucial reference point for juvenile cases, highly advocating for their rights and appropriate treatment in legal contexts.

[case 699]
Sri Naveen vs State By R T Nagar Police, on 3 January, 2020. This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 482 of Cr. P. C praying to quash the charge sheet arising out of Crime No. 375/2015 of R. T. Nagar Police Station, Bengaluru for the offences punishable under Sections 366, 363, 376 of IPC and under Section 5(i) (11) r/w 6 of POCSO Act and all proceedings in Spl. C. C. No. 61/2017 now pending on the file of the L Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru. Respondent No. 2 has filed the missing complaint on 27. 11. 2015. On the basis of the same, a case was registered in Crime No. 375/2015 for the offence punishable under Section 363 of IPC. Subsequently, during the course of investigation, the accused and the victim were traced and, after investigation, the charge sheet has been filed for the offences punishable Sections 366, 363 and 376 of IPC and also under Section 5(j)(ii) read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act. The parties have settled the matter amicably, and the complainant is agreeable to the withdrawal of the case.

[case 700]
In the case of State Of Karnataka vs Sri Brahmadeva, the Karnataka High Court reviewed a criminal appeal where the accused was acquitted of charges related to the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The victim, a minor girl, reported prolonged sexual abuse by her teacher, which was not promptly reported to the authorities, thus raising issues concerning the responsibilities of custodians and the legal framework around the timely reporting of such incidents. The trial court raised concerns about the credibility of the victim's testimony due to the absence of corroborative evidence and the contradictory statements from other witnesses who had firsthand knowledge of the incidents. The prosecution's failure to provide satisfactory explanations for the delay in reporting the abuse further compounded the case leading to the acquittal decision. The appeal was dismissed as the appellate court found the trial court's conclusion was well-supported by the principles of law applicable to sexual offenses against children.

[case 701]
In the case of Santosh Yadav vs State (NCT of Delhi), the appellant was convicted under Section 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act) and various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the sexual assault of a five-year-old girl. The trial court sentenced him to five years of rigorous imprisonment and fines. The case began when the victim's mother reported the incident after the girl returned from a shop indicating she had been sexually assaulted. Evidence from the victim, her parents, and the medical examination corroborated the allegations against the appellant, prompting the court's conviction. The defense claimed false implication due to prior enmity, but failed to provide substantive evidence. The appellate court reiterated the importance of treating child witness statements with a high degree of credence due to their vulnerability. In determining sentencing, it was found that the trial court properly recognized the serious nature of the offence, given the age of the victim.

[case 702]
Sri Vamshi @ Vamshi Krishna, vs The State Of Karnataka on 24 April, 2018. This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of Cr. P. C. praying to enlarge the petitioner on bail in Crime No. 130/2017 of Jagajeevanram Nagar Police Station, Bengaluru and in Spl. C. C. No. 343/2017 pending on the file of LIV Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge (CCH-55), sitting in the Child Friendly Court, Bengaluru Urban District for the offences punishable under Section 376 of IPC and Section 4, 6, 8 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The learned counsel for the petitioner argues by referring to the medical report that the doctor who examined the victim girl soon after lodging of the complaint gave a opinion that the victim girl is not used to the act of sexual intercourse. Moreover two prime witnesses have been examined in the court have not at all spoken anything against the petitioner. However, the High Court Government Pleader asserts the potential risk of influencing other witnesses means bail is unjustifiable.

[case 703]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. The present bail application has been filed by accused-applicant -Arman seeking bail in Case Crime No. 157 of 2024 under Sections 137 (2), 74, 123, 140 (1) of B. N. S. and Section 7/8 POCSO Act, Police Station Chola, District Bulandshahr. In the prosecution case it is alleged that the daughter of the informant, who is studying in Class XIth while she was going to school on 27. 7. 2024 in the morning she was abducted by two accused persons on the motorcycle. On the way Satendra Singh saw them and rescued the victim. .. On due consideration to the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the parties, perusal of the record, varied statements of the victim under Section 180 BNSS and 183 BNSS, lack of corroborative material in support of the prosecution case, admission of the victim before the Child Welfare Committee Bulandshahr and without expressing any opinion on merits of the case, I find it to be a fit case for enlarging the applicant on bail. Accordingly, bail application is allowed.

[case 704]
Rajeshkumar vs State Of Kerala on 27 May, 2021. The petitioner herein is the sole accused in SC. No. 758 of 2014 of I Additional District and Sessions Court, Kollam, who stands convicted for offences punishable under Sections 3(a) read with 4, 5(1), (m) read with 6 of POCSO Act to undergo RI for 10 years each and to pay fine of RS. 25, 000/- (Rupees twenty five thousand only) each for the offences proved against him. The crux of the allegation of the prosecution is that, the petitioner herein, who is the neighbour of the victim had sexually abused her by pressing his private part against her private part on various days some time prior to 2013. Pursuant to the complaint lodged, crime was registered and after trial, the accused was found guilty and sentenced. He is undergoing sentence since 11. 04. 2018. The learned counsel for the petitioner challenged the conviction and sought for bail contending that the prosecution case itself is disbelievable and that the petitioner has been undergoing sentence for the last three years.

[case 705]
Juvenile -X vs State Of U. P. And Another on 2 March, 2023. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 to challenge the rejection of his bail application by the Juvenile Justice Board and the appellate court. The revisionist, aged about 17 years at the time of the incident, contends he has been falsely implicated, citing no substantial evidence against him, and requests his release under the JJ Act. The order rejecting his bail refers to his potential association with criminals and lack of control over him by his natural guardian. The court notes that the refusal to bail must have substantial grounds, highlighting the importance of the Social Information Report and the mandatory provisions of the JJ Act. Ultimately, the court reverses the earlier judgments, allowing for the revisionist's bail with specific conditions to ensure he avoids known criminals and focuses on his education and constructive activities.

[case 706]
Sanjaybhai Sureshbhai Jinjariya vs State Of Gujarat on 12 December, 2018. This application under Section 389 of the Criminal Procedure Code is preferred for suspension of sentence pending the Criminal Appeal No. 1935 of 2018. The applicant herein is convicted by the judgment and order dated 26. 10. 2018 passed by the learned Second Additional Sessions Judge and Special Judge (POCSO), Rajkot in Special Case (POCSO) No. 9 of 2016 for the offences punishable under Section 363 of IPC and directed to undergo simple imprisonment of three years with fine of Rs. 2000/-. The applicant was convicted for the offence punishable under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses Act, 2012 ['POCSO' for short] and directed to undergo simple imprisonment of ten years and fine of Rs. 10, 000/-. The applicant and the victim have got married and are living together with their child. However, the age of the victim is subject to scrutiny, and the applicant's sentence can be suspended pending appeal, considering these factors.

[case 707]
Rakesh @ Chandan vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 24 March, 2025. The present bail application under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure has been filed by the applicant Rakesh @ Chandan, seeking enlargement on bail during trial in connection with Case Crime No. 105 of 2020, under Sections 363, 366, 376, 504 I. P. C. and section 3/4 Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Police Station Sakaldeeha, District Chandauli. This is the third bail application of the applicant. The first and second bail applications were rejected on account of the severity of the accusations and the minor status of the victim. The applicant argues that theres inadequate evidence proving the claims made by the victim, emphasizing discrepancies in her statements. However, the prosecution maintains that irrespective of the victim's contradictions, the established age under the POCSO Act necessitates stringent measures. The court eventually granted bail under specific conditions aimed at preserving the trial's integrity.

[case 708]
This Criminal appeal is filed by the de facto complainant against the judgment of acquittal dated 28. 03. 2019 passed in Spl. S. C. No. 27 of 2017 by the learned Sessions Judge, Magalir Needhimandram, Tiruvallur District. The first respondent police registered a case against the 3rd respondent/accused herein in Crime No. 5 of 2016 for the offence under Section 354 (A) of IPC and Sections 9 (f), 9(m), 9(k) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 [hereinafter referred to as the 'POCSO Act' for the sake of convenience]. The victim girl is a mentally retarded and physically challenged child, aged only 11, who conveyed the sexual assault committed by her teacher using sign language to her mother and subsequently her father reported the incident to the police. The trial court, however, acquitted the accused due to lack of sufficient evidence, primarily questioning the competency of the victim to provide a verbal account of the incident.

[case 709]
Sunita vs State Of Nct Delhi on 21 March, 2022. The present bail application has been filed under Section 439 Cr. P. C. read with Section 482 Cr. P. C. on behalf of the applicant seeking regular bail in FIR No. 368/2016 registered under Sections 370A(1)/372/323 IPC, Sections 4/6 of the POCSO Act and Section 5 of the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act, 1956. After completion of investigation, the charge sheet in the instant case was filed under Sections 323/366A/370(4)/370A(1)/34 IPC, Sections 4/12/17 of the POCSO Act, Section 23 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and Sections 4/5 of the ITPA. The applicant has been in custody since 28. 05. 2016 and is seeking bail due to inconsistencies in witness testimonies including the child victim. Allegations include physical abuse and abetting prostitution of a minor girl who was 13 years old. The child's school records affirmed these allegations and confirmed the applicant's involvement in bringing her to Delhi for work while physically abusing her.

[case 710]
Ramanand Pattath vs State Of Karnataka on 18 June, 2018. The petitioner has approached this court seeking quashing of the Special CC No. 194/2015 on the file of the II Addl. District and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru Rural District, registered against the petitioner for the offence punishable under Section 376 of IPC and also u/s. 6, 8, 10 & 12 of POCSO Act. During the pendency of this petition, the petitioner and the second respondent, who is the mother of the victim girl, have filed a compromise petition, seeking quashing of the matter as it has been compromised between themselves. The wife accused her husband of sexually harassing their twin daughters. After investigation and submission of the charge sheet, the parties decided to separate and live independently for the welfare of the children. The petitioner has also agreed to provide financial support for the children's future development and renounced any rights regarding visitation. The court is considering the compromise and its implications for the children.

[case 711]
In a recent ruling by the Karnataka High Court on June 28, 2023, a writ petition was filed by a petitioner questioning the order made by the Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru, which dismissed her application seeking further investigation in a case involving grave allegations against her husband under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The petitioner claimed that her husband had engaged in abusive behavior towards their four-year-old daughter, which included exposure to pornography and inappropriate physical conduct. The court examined the alleged shortcomings in the police investigation, including missing testimonies and not seizing relevant electronic devices used in the alleged abuse. The court ultimately decided to allow the further investigation to be conducted by a different investigating officer, indicating the necessity for a thorough and unbiased inquiry into the allegations of child abuse, thus emphasizing the victim's right to a fair investigation and trial.

[case 712]
Sahayaraj vs The State Of Tamil Nadu on 21 November, 2024. The petitioner/accused, who is facing trial in Spl. S. C. No. 219 of 2023 for the offence under Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 and Section 5(I), 5(j)(ii) and 6 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, has filed this quash petition. The case of the prosecution is that based on the complaint given by the second respondent, case was registered against the petitioner in Crime No. 547 of 2022 for the offence under Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 and Section 5(I), 5(j)(ii) and 6 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The victim was studying in 9th standard and was unable to continue her education due to family circumstances. The victim married the petitioner but later became pregnant, leading her to file a complaint. The High Court has inherent power to quash proceedings under certain conditions, highlighting the need for caution in protecting victims while ensuring justice.

[case 713]
Smt. Kumari D/O Yesudas vs The State Of Karnataka, on 27 August, 2020. Criminal appeals are preferred by the respective accused persons against the judgment of conviction dated 17-01-2017 and order of sentence dated 18-01-2017 passed in S. C. No. 151/2013 by the I Additional District and Sessions Judge, Ballari, whereby the respective accused persons were found guilty for the offence punishable under Sections 366, 366A, 366B, 368, 370, 370A, 372, 373 read with 109 of IPC and under Sections 3 and 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and under Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 9 of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. The prosecution has established maintenance of brothel by the accused, trading of the accused in prostitution by pushing the accused-victims for prostitution and have gone to the level of living on the earnings as elicited in the oral evidence of the victims. Further the prosecution has established procuring, buying, selling of the victims for prostitution and have practiced it.

[case 714]
Athishai Udayan vs State Of Kerala on 20 February, 2025. This Bail Application is filed under Section 482 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita. The petitioner is the 3rd accused in Crime No. 108/2025 of Palarivattom Police Station. The above case is registered against the petitioner and others alleging offences punishable under Sections 10 r/w 7, 8 & 9(l) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO Act') and Sections 74, 75 and 96 of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 (for short 'BNS'). The crux of the allegation is against a 15-year-old girl child. The 1st accused established contacts with her through Instagram. It is alleged that on 04. 02. 2025, the 1st accused took the girl from a bakery and sexually abused her. The bail application was debated, and it's stated that the grant of bail is the rule while jail is the exception. The Court permitted bail under stringent conditions, ensuring cooperation with the investigation and securing the proper procedure for the accused.

[case 715]
Mr. Nissar Ahmed vs State Of Karnataka on 24 February, 2025 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 24TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2025 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MRS JUSTICE M G UMA WRIT PETITION NO. 7925 OF 2021 This W. P. is filed under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India R/W Section 482 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 praying to quash complainant dtd 10. 04. 2021 lodged by R-2 before R-1 against the petitioners as highly arbitrary illegal and contrary to law. The petitioners are seeking to quash the criminal proceedings initiated against them for offenses punishable under Sections 506, 294 and 503 read with Section 34 of Indian Penal Code due to allegations that they have harassed students and blackmailed children. The Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights conducted an investigation based on complaints made by parents regarding these violations. Courts have consistently held that the FIR does not disclose an offense committed, indicating abuse of the process of law.

[case 716]
X Minor vs State Of U. P. and 3 Others on 4 April, 2023. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his father under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 against the order dated 22. 11. 2022. The trial court rejected the second bail application arising out of Case Crime No. 1249 of 2021, under various sections including Section 376D IPC and under Section 5-m/6 POCSO Act. The revisionist, being a juvenile at the time of the incident, was declared juvenile by the Juvenile Justice Board. The revisionist, who argued for bail, was in protective custody since September 2021. The court observed that the release of the juvenile could only be denied under specific conditions outlined in Section 12 of the JJ Act, which includes the possibility of the juvenile associating with known criminals or being exposed to moral danger. As the court found no substantial evidence supporting such concerns, it eventually decided to allow bail to the revisionist.

[case 717]
In the case Pramod Ganpatrao Joshi vs The State Of Maharashtra, the accused was charged with offences punishable under Section 354(A)1 of IPC and under Sections 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The Special Court convicted the accused for these offences, sentencing him to one year of rigorous imprisonment for the IPC offence and five years of rigorous imprisonment for the POCSO Act offence. The victim, a young girl, was lured into a room by the accused, who then committed inappropriate acts against her. The prosecution's case relied heavily on the victim's testimony, despite the defence raising concerns regarding the delayed police report and the lack of medical examination of the victim. The High Court examined these objections before affirming the conviction but modifying the sentence to three years of imprisonment. It concluded that while the victim's evidence was compelling, the judgement regarding sentencing needed adjustment to reflect the circumstances of the case.

[case 718]
Avanish Kumar Singh @ Ranu Singh vs State Of U. P. And 4 Others on 2 February, 2023. The present application under Section 439 CrPC seeks bail in RC No. 10(S)/2022/CBI/SC-III/ND, under Sections 120-B IPC read with Sections 4, 6, 8, 10, 14, 15 and 17 POCSO Act, Section 67-B(C) Information Technology Act, 2000. On 29. 04. 2022, a complaint was registered under Section 67-B I. T. Act against Rambhawan and Ajit Kumar for sharing child sexual abuse materials. Ajit Kumar had exchanged various child sexual abuse material from 2015 to 2016 and sought more material from co-accused, Rambhawan. The investigation disclosed recovery of incriminating materials from Ajit Kumar, who also used social media for transmission of these materials. The accused-applicant, a Director of a private institute, allegedly instigated minor victims to have sexual intercourse with him, during multiple instances and recorded these acts. The victims were aged 12-16 years, displaying psychological stress as confirmed by the medical examination.

[case 719]
In the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad, a case titled 'Prakashbhai Gordhanbhai Metal vs State Of Gujarat' was recently heard. The applicant sought regular bail under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The applicant was arrested in connection with F. I. R. for offences punishable under Sections 363, 366, and 376 of the IPC, as well as under sections 4, 6 and 18 of the POCSO Act due to the involvement of a minor girl in the case. The prosecutrix, being 17 years and 07 months old, was considered a minor, and it was stated that the question of consent does not arise. The court took a serious view of the sexual offences against minor girls, noting that a minor must be protected under the law. Although the girl left her home voluntarily and was in a romantic relationship with the applicant, the court upheld that her age made her consent irrelevant. The bail application was ultimately granted with specific conditions to maintain the integrity of the investigation and protect the victim's interests.

[case 720]
Heard Sri Amit Raj Sachan, learned counsel for the revisionist and Sri Abhishek Singh, learned Brief Holder for the State and perused the material available on record. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his mother under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as 'JJ Act, 2015') against the judgment dated 10. 08. 2022 passed by Special Judge (POCSO) Act/ Additional Sessions Judge Court No. 13 Kanpur Nagar in Criminal Appeal No. 91 of 2022, whereby the appellate court has rejected the Criminal appeal and affirmed the order dated 20. 07. 2022 passed by Juvenile Justice Board, Kanpur Nagar. The Juvenile Justice Board has rejected the bail application of the revisionist, which has been filed by his natural guardian/mother, under Section 12 of 'JJ Act, 2015' in Case Crime No. 223 of 2022, under Sections 411, 413, 414 of the Indian Penal Code (in short 'I. P. C. '), Police Station- Bidhnu, District- Kanpur Nagar.

[case 721]
State Represented By vs Kathir on 10 October, 2022. The judgment was concerning the acquittal of Kathir under the POCSO Act where the prosecution argued that the evidence provided was sufficient to convict him for the aggravated penetrative sexual assault of a child. The Special Judge found the evidence of the victim and her parents inconsistent and not trustworthy, leading to the acquittal. This prompted the State to appeal against the decision, suggesting that sole evidence of the victim could suffice for conviction under the POCSO Act if deemed trustworthy. The appeal raised points about the proper appreciation of evidence, with emphasis on the reliability of the child's statement and the statutory presumption under the POCSO Act. After reevaluating the evidence presented, the appellate court found that the trial court had erred in acquitting the respondent, leading to a reversal of the acquittal and a conviction under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, thereby imposing a sentence of ten years imprisonment.

[case 722]
The Special Court found guilt of accused and convicted him for the offence under Section 9(m), punishable under Sec. 10 of POCSO Act, and sentenced to undergo five years rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 10, 000/- in default, to undergo three months rigorous imprisonment. Challenging the said judgment of conviction and sentence, the accused has filed the present appeal before this Court. The defence has not examined the computer operator, who has taken Ex. D1, the copy of bio-metric attendance register and it is an electronic document, which has got to be certified under Sec. 65-B of Evidence Act. Unless it is certified under Sec. 65-B of Evidence Act, it is not admissible in evidence. The victim girl has clearly identified the appellant and stated that on the date of occurrence, at about 07. 30 p. m. , the appellant came to the occurrence place and called her, took her on his bike and showed the picture in his cell phone and at the time, he touched private part of the victim and fiddled with it. ..

[case 723]
A B C vs State Of Gujarat on 8 November, 2023 The facts taken out from the petition, are as under: That the petitioner submits that her father has died before 1 year and her widow mother is residing at her parent's house. That due to financial crises and other social issues, the petitioner used to reside with her aunt's (Faiba) house situates at Vadiya, Rajpipla, Narmada District and from there the minor-petitioner was pursuing her study. That uncle (Fuva) of the petitioner named Jayeshbhai Nipalbhai Vasava- (accused in FIR) used to abuse the petitioner physically and also make exploitation to the petitioner-minor, and therefore, petitioner got pregnant and when the petitioner's mother visited the house of her sister-in-law, at that time it was perceived looking to the stomach that the petitioner-minor is pregnant, and therefore petitioner-victim was brought at Civil Hospital, Rajpipla for medical check up, wherein the petitioner-minor was found to be pregnant and pregnancy was running about 7 months.

[case 724]
Mrs. Praveena vs The Child Welfare Committee (North) on 5 April, 2024. W. P. No. 4843 of 2024. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 05. 04. 2024. CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. M. SUBRAMANIAM. Mrs. Praveena. .. Petitioner. Vs. 1. The Child Welfare Committee (North), Through its President / Chairman, 2. Mariyakaya Girls Home. .. Respondents. Prayer: Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Mandamus, directing the 1st respondent to consider petitioner representation dated 16. 02. 2024 and to direct the 1st respondent to pass an order to give custody of the petitioner's minor adopted child namely A. Prithika aged about 11 years to petitioner. The minor girl is aged about 11 years and informed the School Teacher that she had been abused by the said Boopalan in the house. .. . The psychological reports submitted by the psychologist / Counsellor would be sufficient to form an opinion that the child must be allowed to continue her studies in Sevasadhan.

[case 725]
High Court Of Karnataka vs The State Of Karnataka on 13 August, 2021. The nature of samples pending examination by the Forensic Science Laboratory/ies indicates that the processing time has been extended far beyond acceptable limits due to a lack of manpower and inadequate equipment. The court's intervention aims to ensure that all forensic reports are submitted in line with critical timelines, effectively impacting the judicial process concerning accused individuals in custody. Furthermore, the government recognized the need to operationalize additional sections to enhance forensic capabilities, prompting a review of the recruitment plans and procurements necessary to address these delays. Following the court's interim orders, compliance reports are necessary to monitor recruitment and performance effectively. Thus, there are significant expectations for immediate action taken by the state to comply with the orders to avoid breach of constitutional protections related to the right to a fair trial.

[case 726]
Karnataka High Court Smt Leena Abraham vs Byju Joseph on 24 October, 2024 -1- NC: 2024: KHC: 43058 WP No. 23085 of 2024 IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 24TH DAY OF OCTOBER, 2024 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE R. NATARAJ WRIT PETITION NO. 23085 OF 2024 (GM-CPC) BETWEEN: SMT. LEENA ABRAHAM W/O. BYJU JOSEPH, AGED ABOUT 42 YEARS, OCC: HOUSE WIFE, A-901, BRIGADE GARDENIA APARTMENT, J. P. NAGAR, 7TH PHASE, BANGALORE-560 078. .. .PETITIONER (BY SMT. LEENA ABRAHAM, PETITIONER (PARTY-IN-PERSON)) AND: BYJU JOSEPH AGED 45 YEARS, S/O. T. J. VARGHESE, RESIDING AT (1) NO. 4/1, 5TH CROSS, THARAMANNIL HOUSE, MARKONAHALLI RAMU PRIYA LOCATION: HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA BANGALORE-560 060, .. .RESPONDENT (BY SMT. BHUSHANI KUMAR, ADVOCATE) THIS WRIT PETITION IS FILED UNDER ARTICLES 226 AND 227 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA PRAYING TO DIRECT THE RESPONDENT TO PAY ONE CRORE (1 CRORE) FOR COMPENSATION FOR MENTAL AGONY, CHEATING AND PHYSICAL ABUSE INDUCED TO THE PETITIONER AND HER MINOR CHILD OF 7 YEARS. ..

[case 727]
Rajasekar vs The State Rep. By on 3 February, 2017. The appellant is in custody. This criminal appeal is filed to set aside the judgment dated 03. 02. 2017, passed by the Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Coimbatore in Spl. C. C. No. 61/2014, in convicting the appellant under Section 3(a) r/w 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The accused came and committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim girl, aged about 16 years, who due to this assault became pregnant and subsequently delivered a female baby. The lower court has concluded that the charge is proven. The prosecution's claims were supported by the victim's testimony and medical evidence confirming her pregnancy. The defense argued consent but was removed since the victim was a minor. Thus, the verdict was upheld based on the firm evidence of the charge. The trial court concluded the prosecution proved all charges beyond reasonable doubt. Revoking her consent was deemed not sufficient for appeal in non-compoundable cases.

[case 728]
Xxxxx vs State Of Kerala on 25 November, 2021. The petitioner is the mother of a child, aged 17 years. The child was pursuing her first-year VHSC (FHW) Course in Victory VHSS Olathanni Aided School. Due to abject poverty, she was staying at Christian Mission Children's Home, Malanchani, Neyyattinkara. Due to an unfortunate turn of events, she became the victim of sexual abuse. A crime was registered at the Kunnikode Police Station alleging offences inter alia under Section 3 of the POCSO Act and under Section 376 of the IPC. The petitioner contends that the school in which the child is pursuing her studies is situated near to the house of the accused. It is also contended that the child is still being taunted by certain persons. In order to pursue her studies, she applied for a transfer admission to the Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Mavelikkara. The learned counsel asserts that though there are enough vacancies in the said School, for one reason or the other, admission is refused.

[case 729]
In the case of Ashok vs Public Health Department, the petitioner has filed a writ petition seeking direction from the respondents to terminate her pregnancy under the provisions of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971. The case arose after the petitioner, a 17-year-old girl, was reported to be pregnant due to criminal offences under IPC and POCSO. She argued that continuance of pregnancy would cause grave injury to her mental health, causing great mental agony, and socio-economic problems. A medical board recommended termination of the pregnancy, affirming that the pregnant womans mental health is significantly impacted in such distressing situations. The court stated that the law has provisions for the termination of pregnancy up to 20 weeks under specific circumstances, including the mental health of the affected woman. The court emphasized the importance of survivor rights and permitted termination under the legal framework provided by the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971.

[case 730]
In the case of Yunusbhai Usmanbhai Shaikh vs State Of Gujarat on 23 September 2015, the facts outlined that the applicant, Yunusbhai, was accused of kidnapping a minor named Namira, which was litigious and contentious due to the nature of personal law applied to the parties involved. It was stated that Namira, aged 16 years and 4 months at the time of the alleged offense, was said to have left her parental home of her own free will and subsequently married Yunus. The respondent argued the marriage violates the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, which emphasizes the illegality of child marriages, defining a child as a female under 18 years and a male under 21 years. The applicant's defense included points on personal law that purportedly allowed the marriage without parental consent at such a young age, leading to questions about the protection rights of minors under the coercive voices of societal norms against the statutory laws designed to safeguard children from early and forced unions.

[case 731]
Jai Prakash Narain vs State Of Karnataka on 15 September, 2018. This petition is filed under section 482 of Cr. P. C. seeking to quash the FIR registered against the petitioners in Crime No. 350/2014 by the Halasur Gate Police, Bengaluru, for the offences punishable under section 354(A) of Indian Penal Code and section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The allegations made against the petitioners in the above complaint are utterly absurd, incredible and inherently improbable. The minor daughter has reiterated these allegations during her examination by the police under section 161 Cr. P. C. and also before the learned Magistrate while giving her statement under section 164 Cr. P. C. The report submitted by the Mediator clearly indicates that an attempt has been made by the second respondent to foist false criminal charges against the petitioners. The continuance of the proceedings against the petitioners based on the allegations has been found to be dubious and suspicious.

[case 732]
Prosecution vs Naseem @ Kallu S/O Late Ahmad Hussain on 24 May, 2017. IN THE COURT OF SH. GURDEEP SINGH ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE+1/ SPECIAL JUDGE (POCSO), SHAHDARA DISTRICT, KARKARDOOMA COURTS, DELHI. Sessions Case No: 704/2016 FIR No. : 430/15 Under Section: 354/354 A IPC & 12 POCSO ACT Police Station: Seema Puri. In the matter of: State. .. .. .. .. .. Prosecution VERSUS Naseem @ Kallu S/o Late Ahmad Hussain R/o: Jhuggi No. E-44/A-25 Jain Mandir, Near Oliya Masjid New Seemapuri Delhi-110095. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Accused Date of Institution: 15-05-2015 Date of reserving judgment: 24-05-2017 Date of pronouncement: 24-05-2017 JUDGMENT 1) Accused Naseem @ Kalu was sent up for trial by the police of Police Station Seemapuri for the offences punishable under Section 354/354 A/354B/363/342 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (herein after referred to as "IPC" in short) and under Section 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as "POCSO" in short) on the allegations. ..

[case 733]
The Karnataka High Court case involving Joseph Kevin Selvadoray addresses serious allegations under the POCSO Act. Joseph, who is contesting charges of sexual abuse against his daughter, has a complex marital dispute with Shabana B. S. , the childs mother. The case stems from a complaint made by Shabana after their daughter learned about inappropriate touching in school. Court rulings have been made regarding visitation rights and interim custody, which have been points of contention between the parties. Joseph claims the allegations are false and aimed at manipulating custody decisions, and has sought anticipatory bail due to fear of arrest. The court emphasized the need to scrutinize such allegations carefully, especially when they arise in the context of custody battles, to avoid using children as tools in parental disputes. The court ultimately ruled in favor of Joseph, granting him bail with conditions to cooperate with the investigation, appearing in court, and not tampering with witnesses.

[case 734]
The instant anticipatory bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant, Bhondu @ Mahendra, with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 428 of 2020, under Sections 354, 504 I. P. C. section 7/8 of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Police Station- Pipari, District- Kaushambi, during pendency of trial. There is allegation against the applicant and an unknown accused person that they lifted the daughter of the informant, who is aged about twelve years while she was sleeping under the tin shed and took her about 300 meters away and started molesting her. When she raised alarm villagers came and rescued her. The court is of the view that allegations against the applicant are not credible. The offence alleged under sections 7/8 of POCSO Act are not made out, since there is no allegation of touching any private part of the victim. However, these observations are for the purpose of considering this anticipatory bail application and will not affect the trial court.

[case 735]
Karnataka High Court Basavaraja S/O. Linganna vs State Of Karnataka on 21 February, 2025. This CRIMINAL PETITION IS FILED U/SE. 482 OF CR. P. C. SEEKING TO, CALL FOR THE RELEVANT RECORDS ALLOW THIS CRIMINAL PETITION BY QUASHING THE IMPUGNED FINAL REPORT FILED BY THE 1ST RESPONDENT SIRUGUPPA POLICE CRIME NO. 201/2021 ON THE FILE OF 1ST ADDITIONAL DISTRICT AND SESSIONS JUDGE AND FTSC-I, BALLARI FOR THE OFFENCES P/U/SEC. 376(2)(n), 363, AND 506 OF IPC AND U/SEC. 5(L), 6, 4(1), AND 17 OF PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT 2012 AS AGAINST PETITIONERS/ACCUSED NO. 6 TO 11. The prosecution alleges that accused No. 1 kidnapped the second respondent-survivor and subsequently committed forcible sexual intercourse. The only allegation against the petitioners/accused herein is that they forced the second respondent-survivor to marry accused No. 6. Other than that, there is no specific overt act by which the petitioners instigated or abetted accused No. 1 in committing forcible sexual intercourse.

[case 736]
Prince Kumar vs The State Of Bihar on 27 January, 2025 IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL REVISION No. 592 of 2023 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -160 Year-2022 Thana- JALALGARH District- Purnia. The petioning juvenile, through his legal guardian, was involved in multiple serious offenses including rape of minors under the POSCO Act. All petitioners claim wrongful implications, relieved juvenile status for each juvenile in question, leading to further appeals regarding bail applications being rejected by Special Judges' Children's Court. The considerations of bail for juveniles are given under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, emphasizing the presumption of innocence, family responsibility, and the best interest of the child. Despite juvenile status and claims of wrongful implications, the court finds that the nature of crimes, particularly involving minors, is serious and holds justice paramount in dismissing all writ petitions regarding altered bail orders.

[case 737]
This application coming on for admission this day, the court passed the following: ORDER This is the first application filed by the applicant under Section 439 of the Cr. P. C. for grant of regular bail relating to FIR No. 228/2022 dated 24. 12. 2022 of P. S. Kindrai, District-Seoni (M. P. ) for commission of offence under Sections 363, 366, 294, 506 of the IPC and Section 3, 4, 5l, 6 of POCSO Act, 2012. He is in detention since 05. 02. 2023. As per the prosecution story, on 24. 12. 2022, 17 years old prosecutrix lodged an FIR stating that in October, 2021, one Devlal had proposed her for marriage. They both had talks on phone. On 04. 03. 2022, on false promise of marriage, Devlal had committed rape upon her. Thereafter, he repeatedly committed rape upon her. In the meantime, she had conceived from him. Now Devlal has refused to marry with her. FIR was registered. Later it was stated by the prosecutrix that present applicant, who is brother of Devlal, had uttered filthy words and had threatened to do death.

[case 738]
This appeal is directed against the conviction and sentence dated 04. 12. 2015, made in Spl. S. C. No. 10 of 2015, on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Karur. The appellant is the sole accused. He stood charged for the offence under Section 5(l)(m) read with Section 6 (2 counts) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 [hereinafter referred to as ''the POCSO Act''] and Section 506(i) I. P. C. The accused opted for trial. After full-fledged trial, the learned Sessions Judge came to the conclusion that the appellant/sole accused is guilty under Section 5(l)(m) read with Section 6 (2 counts) of the POCSO Act and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1, 000/-, in default, to undergo simple imprisonment for three months. The accused was further convicted under Section 506(i) I. P. C. and sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for one year and to pay a fine of Rs. 500/-, in default, to undergo simple imprisonment for one month.

[case 739]
Karnataka High Court, Dharanesha B C vs The State Of Karnataka on 23 June, 2020. This criminal petition is filed under section 439 of cr. p. c. by the advocate for the petitioner praying to release the petitioner on bail in Crime No. 31/2019 registered by Channarayapatna Rural Police Station for the offence P/U/S 9, 10 and 11 of prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006, Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Section 3 of Dowry Prohibition Act and Section 323, 504, 498A, 506 and 376 r/w 34 of IPC. The substance of the complaint is that the complainant is the child victim residing at Dandiganahalli village, and accused persons performed her marriage when she was below 18 years old. Accused No. 1 repeatedly raped her, and the victim was subjected to matrimonial cruelty. The Additional District Judge had rejected the bail application, stating the heinous nature of the crime. After considering all factors, the petition was allowed with specific conditions for bail release.

[case 740]
The petitioner is the 7th accused in Crime no. 54/2020 of Chevayur Police Station, Kozhikode, now pending before the IInd Additional Sessions Court, Kozhikode as S. C. No. 860/2022. The petitioner seeks quashment of the said crime, as also, all further proceedings therefrom, on the premise that the offence alleged under Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (for short, 'J. J. Act') will not lie in the given facts and circumstances. The prosecution allegations are as follows: One Ajin, aged 6 years, who was an inmate of the Home for Mentally Deficient Children (HMDC) at Vellimadukunnu, Kozhikode, urinated while sleeping. Infuriated by the same, certain other inmates (accused nos. 1 to 4) have assaulted the said Ajin and he succumbed to death. Accused nos. 5 and 6 are the Multi Task Care Providers of the said institution, who permitted children who have attained majority to stay along with the minor children, contrary to specific instructions in this regard.

[case 741]
The present Criminal Appeal has been filed to set aside the order, dated 29. 04. 2022, made in Cr. M. P. No. 516 of 2022 on the file of the Principal Special Court for Exclusive trial of Cases under POCSO Act, 2012, Madurai. The case of the prosecution is that the petitioner got married the defacto complainant and sexually abused her by using her caste name and also threatened her with dire consequences. Therefore, the first respondent registered a case against the petitioner in Cr. No. 16 of 2022 for the offences under Section 5(1), 5(j)(ii) & 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Section 9 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, and Section 3(1) w (i) r/w 3(2)(v) of SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. While investigation is pending, the petitioner filed a petition for bail and the same was dismissed on the ground that if the petitioner is released on bail, at the stage of investigation pending, there is likelihood of absconding and the investigation will be left pending.

[case 742]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to call for the records and quash the charge sheet filed in Spl. S. C. No. 26 of 2020, on the file of the Special Judge, (Under POCSO Act, 2012), Pudhucherry. The case of the prosecution is that the defacto complainant had love affair with the first accused and thereafter, she became pregnant. After coming to know about the same, both parents warned them, but later, they agreed for their marriage. The defacto complainant went for checkup on 11. 12. 2019 and the doctor referred her to consult the Rajeev Gandhi Women's Hospital, Puducherry as she had low blood level and anemia. On 12. 12. 2019, after checkup, the defacto complainant got admitted in the hospital. The hospital authorities informed the respondent police that the defacto complainant who is under 18 years was admitted in the hospital for treatment and she was four months pregnant and her date of birth was 12. 01. 2002. Based on the same, FIR was registered in Crime No. 91 of 2019, on 13. 12. 2019.

[case 743]
Vishal Singh faced trial for allegedly committing penetrative sexual assault against a 13-year-old victim, referred to as J. The incident allegedly occurred on 18. 07. 2016 when the victim was visiting her brother in Delhi. Although the victim initially reported the incident on 22. 07. 2016, her testimony during the trial complicated matters, as she contradicted her earlier statements and denied any wrongdoing by the accused. The prosecution's case relied heavily on the testimonies of the victim and her sister-in-law, both of whom ultimately did not support the allegations against Vishal. Furthermore, forensic evidence from the investigation did not connect the accused to the crime, leading to his acquittal on the charges against him. The court highlighted that the victim's psychological condition and any possible injuries formed a critical part of the case but ultimately found no compensatory grounds to grant any financial relief under the POCSO Act due to the lack of substantiating evidence.

[case 744]
Criminal Petition No. 3609/2020 filed under Section 438 of Cr. P. C praying to grant anticipatory bail to the petitioner-accused Smt. Nagamma in Crime No. 23/2020 registered by Sidlaghatta Town Police Station, which entails serious offences including kidnapping and abetment to suicide. It concerns the suicide of a complainant's husband due to the alleged involvement of the petitioner-accused in a dispute arising from the kidnapping of their minor daughter, leading to severe mental distress and his eventual suicide. Detailed arguments were presented by both sides regarding the merits of the anticipatory bail application and the seriousness of the allegations against the petitioner. The Court scrutinized the allegations made, determining that there was insufficient evidence relating the petitioner-accuseds actions to the death of the complainant's husband, and ultimately allowed the petition for anticipatory bail under strict conditions.

[case 745]
The prosecution story in brief is that on 27. 05. 2013 after receiving DD No. 28A SI Vipin Kumar along with Ct. Jai Prakash reached Palm green Society, Sector-11, Dwarka where they met the complainant (the name of the complainant and the child victim are being withheld to protect their identity). At the spot, the complainant had given a written complaint to SI Vipin Kumar in which it was alleged by the complainant that during vacations, her sister's children aged 11 years and 9 years respectively had come to her house and the guard of their society, i. e. , accused had sexually abused the child victims by touching their private parts in the afternoon in the lift and also in the night. After receipt of the complaint of the complainant, FIR No. 156/13 was registered. The investigation proceeded and statements under section 164 Cr. P. C were recorded. The accused was charged under section 342 IPC and section 10 of POCSO Act, but was acquitted due to inconsistencies in the testimonies of witnesses.

[case 746]
Mohammed Fazil Aman vs State By Madiwala Police Station on 10 September, 2018. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 10TH DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2018 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE B. A. PATIL CRIMINAL PETITION NO. 5548/2018 Between: Mohammed Fazil Aman, S/o K. Aman Ullah Khan, Aged about 22 years, R/at No. 73, 1st Floor, 10th Cross, BTM 1st Stage, Bengaluru - 560 068. .. .Petitioner. And: State by Madiwala Police Station, Represented by State Public Prosecutor, High Court of Karnataka, Bengaluru-560001. .. .Respondent. This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure praying to enlarge the petitioner on bail in Crime No. 50/2018 of Madiwala Police Station, Bengaluru City and in Spl. C. C. No. 481/2018 pending on the file of LIV Additional City Civil and Sessions Judge (Child Friendly Court), Bengaluru for the offences punishable under Sections 376, 354, 504 and 506 of IPC and Sections 4 and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act. .. .

[case 747]
Devesh Pandey And Another vs State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Home. .. on 6 February, 2025. This case involves an application under Section 482 against the State of U. P. related to a chargesheet filed for serious allegations including physical assault and rape. The victim produced a written complaint leading to an FIR based on the allegations that Devesh Pandey had been in a physical relationship with her under the false pretext of marriage. The incident culminated in rape, and subsequent assault by the accused and relatives. The victim was 19 at the time of the incident. During the trial, the couple married, and after the birth of their child, they sought quashing of all charges against Devesh Pandey. The court considered the maturity of the relationship and past judgments, concluding that continuing proceedings would adversely impact the family unit. With these considerations, and based on earlier Supreme Court judgments, the court quashed the criminal proceedings against the accused.

[case 748]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD Case: - CRIMINAL REVISION No. - 1447 of 2020 Revisionist: - Kapil Opposite Party: - State of U. P. and Another Counsel for Revisionist: - Jai Singh Yadav Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Dinesh Pathak, J. Heard learned counsel for the revisionist, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the record. Instant Criminal Revision has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 13. 07. 2020 passed by Speical Judge (POCSO Act), Court No. 1, Moradabad in Criminal Appeal No. 15 of 2020 (Kapil Vs. State of U. P. & Others) as well as order dated 28. 02. 2020 by Principal Magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Moradabad. In the case outlined, it is evident that there are no substantive allegations directly implicating Kapil in the criminal activities, yet he remains imprisoned. What legal actions may be taken to rectify this situation and ensure that the rights of a child wrongfully accused are acknowledged and protected throughout the judicial process?

[case 749]
Sonali Gupta vs Amit Gupta @ Sachin & Ors. on 25 February, 2025. Delhi High Court. Author: Jasmeet Singh. Petitioner Sonali Gupta alleged physical and mental abuse by her husband and in-laws. A Domestic Violence complaint was filed, but the court declined to summon her in-laws. The appellant argued that all involved should be called based on her claims. The judges referenced previous legal definitions regarding 'domestic relationships' within the Domestic Violence Act, affirming that not all must share a household simultaneously to be summoned in cases of alleged abuse. They emphasized the need for applicable judicial scrutiny of vague allegations and the definition of domestic violence. Recognizing that lack of specific proof of abuse could weaken an applicant's case, the judges upheld the lower court's decision that did not compel the summoning of all alleged abusers. Therefore, the appeal was dismissed, allowing for a chance for the appellant to provide adequate proof of her claims.

[case 750]
The learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing on behalf of the 1st respondent Police submitted that the 2nd respondent, the mother of the victim girl lodged a complaint that from 25. 05. 2019 her daughter was found missing, she completed 12th STD in the Government Higher Secondary, School, Valladhurai and she was 17 years old. During her school days, she had three good friends in school. One of the classmate's cousin/petitioner got acquainted with his daughter and they were in love with each other. The petitioner and the victim girl were found alone which was noticed by the 2nd respondent. They were warned and she was restrained to have any relationship with the petitioner. From 25. 05. 2019, at about 11. 30 p. m. , she was found missing, she was searched and not traceable and thereafter, the complaint was lodged. On receipt of the complaint, the 1st respondent Police registered the case. During the investigation, the victim girl was secured and the petitioner was arrested on 05. 06. 2019.

[case 751]
In the context of the passage, the provisions outlined in the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 significantly prioritize the welfare of juveniles involved in criminal proceedings. The highlighted case of Satyam Yadav reveals that the juvenile justice framework ensures that minors are separated from adult offenders and given a chance for a more supportive environment tailored to their rehabilitation. The legal parameters suggest that juvenile offenders should be placed in observation homes rather than prisons and that any bail consideration must take into account their mental, physical, and emotional states. Hence, the focus is on creating a framework that fosters better outcomes for young individuals rather than limiting their opportunities through traditional punitive measures. Moreover, judicial oversight is crucial in ensuring that all decisions align with the child's best interests as indicated through case law emphasizing humane treatment and attention.

[case 752]
The appellant faced multiple charges, framed under Sections 363 and 366 of IPC, as well as charges under the POCSO Act. During the trial, the prosecution provided various testimonies and documents intended to substantiate the victim status of the prosecutrix and her agewhich was argued to be crucial in applying the POCSO Act to the case. The court's examination of evidence, including school records, affidavits from the prosecutrix's father, and testimonies from witnesses aimed at establishing whether the prosecutrix was indeed a minor led to a significant realization. The inconsistencies in testimonies regarding the age of the prosecutrix and the nature of her relationship with the appellant raised doubts sufficient to benefit the accused. The failure of the prosecution to establish clear, reliable evidence regarding the age of the prosecutrix thus led to the ultimate acquittal of the appellant under the stringent provisions of the POCSO Act.

[case 753]
These batch of Revisions are filed, challenging the orders passed by the Children's Court rejecting bail of the Child in Conflict with Law (hereinafter referred to as 'CICL'), who have been made accused in different criminal cases concerning heinous offences. In connection with Dumariya P. S. Case No. 51 of 2022, the petitioner was aged about 15 years 7 months 29 days. He has been in custody on and from 3rd of April, 2022 in connection with the above-named case which was registered under Sections 302, 376DA and 34 of the IPC and Sections 4, 6 and 17 of POCSO Act. The CICL prayed for bail before the Juvenile Justice Board (hereinafter referred to as 'JJB'), Gaya, which was rejected on 13th of February, 2023. Against the aforesaid order, the CICL through his respective father, filed an appeal under Section 101 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 before the Children's Court at Gaya. The Court of Appeal also rejected his prayer for bail on 2nd of May, 2023.

[case 754]
State vs Raj Babbar @ Raj on 1 May, 2015. The prosecutrix, who is a minor, reported a series of disturbing incidents revolving around the accused, Raj Babbar. The victim had been introduced to the accused by her tutor, Sheela, and they began talking. Following a period of silence, the accused reached out to the victim again, leading to dire circumstances that involved manipulation and abuse. The prosecutrix alleged that the accused threatened her with the repercussions if she did not comply with his demands, including stealing from her family and participating in illicit activities with him. Ultimately, this led to the registration of FIR No. 90 on 02. 02. 15, prompting the investigation and subsequent court proceedings aiming at bringing the accused to justice. The court, upon reviewing the evidence and testimonies, determined that several charges under POCSO and IPC are appropriate given the nature of the offenses and the vulnerability of the prosecutrix at the hands of the accused.

[case 755]
This Criminal Miscellaneous Petition is filed to suspend the conviction and sentence imposed upon the petitioner in Special SC No. 45 of 2020, dated 28/10/2021 by the Sessions Judge (FAC), Mahila Court, Pudukottai. The victim girl was studying 3rd standard during the occurrence period. The de-facto complainant is the mother of the victim child, who was attending work in a neighboring area. The complainant left the child in the house of one Selvi while she went to work. When she returned, the victim informed her that a person had removed her dress and touched her private part, giving her money and threatening her with a knife. The case was registered under the section 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012. After a trial with 10 witnesses and subsequent conviction of the accused, this appeal has been filed. The learned counsel argues that there are contradictions in the victim's account, while the Additional Public Prosecutor emphasizes the victim's young age and the clear evidence of sexual abuse.

[case 756]
Dr. Prabhat Kumar Singh vs Dr. Sudha Singh on 7 March, 2025. Present appeal is filed by the appellant-Dr. Prabhat Kumar Singh challenging the judgment and decree dated 28. 02. 2020 passed by Principal Judge, Family Court, Lucknow in O. S. No. 1995 of 2013 (Dr. Prabhat Kumar Singh Vs. Dr. Sudha Singh) whereby the Principal Judge, Family Court has dismissed the suit for divorce filed by the plaintiff-appellant under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. The marriage between the plaintiff-appellant and defendant-respondent took place on 14. 12. 1985 according to Hindu rites and rituals. The allegations made in the plaint state the behavior of the respondent became rude and intolerant towards the appellant, leading to a breakdown of the marriage. The respondent even attacked her mother-in-law with a kitchen knife, showcasing extreme behavior. However, the Family Court did not find favor with the appellants allegations of cruelty and dismissed the petition, which is now being appealed.

[case 757]
The petitioners are the accused in Crime No. 1970/2020 of Kottiyam Police Station, Kollam. The prosecution case in nutshell is like this: The petitioner in B. A. No. 7011/2020 is the husband of the defacto complainant. The marriage between the petitioner in that bail application and the defacto complainant was on 28. 12. 2007. In this wedlock there was a daughter and now the daughter is aged 12 years. The present FIR is registered on 26. 9. 2020, alleging that the petitioner in B. A. No. 6560/2020, who is alleged as adultrator of the defacto complainant committed sexual assault on the child. According to the prosecution, the child was given custody to the father on that day morning and when the child was in the house of the father, the petitioner in B. A No. 6560/2020 sexually abused the child. This is the sum and substance of the allegation. The learned Public Prosecutor also opposed the bail application. The Public Prosecutor made available the first information statement given by the victim.

[case 758]
This revision under Section 102 of the Juvenile Justice ( Care and Protection of Children), Act, 2015 emphasizes that juvenile offenders deserve special considerations in law. According to the passage, there should be a clear differentiation in handling juvenile cases compared to adult offenders. The intent of juvenile justice legislation emphasizes rehabilitation and reintegration into society. The systematic review of case details should include the juvenile's prior record, family environment, and community ties. Importantly, the courts are observed to advocate for more humane treatment of minors within the justice system. Legal precedents establish that juveniles have rights that must be protected during legal proceedings, especially when their future is at stake. Through legislative frameworks like the Juvenile Justice Act and subsequent judicial rulings, there are established protocols to ensure that the minor is treated with dignity, and their best interests are prioritized.

[case 759]
Dharamvir vs State Of Punjab on 27 March, 2018. Appellant has been convicted for the offences punishable under Sections 6 and 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 by the learned Additional Sessions Judge-cum-Special Judge under POCSO Act. As per the complainant's statement, her daughters revealed that the appellant had been harassing them, while he allegedly attempted to commit rape upon them. The prosecution examined six witnesses but the appellant claimed innocence. It was noted that the victims were found to be incompetent to suffer a statement under Section 164 Cr. P. C. due to their tender ages. However, after a two-month period, they provided detailed testimonies against the appellant. The Medical Officer stated molestation possibility could not be ruled out, even though there were no marks of violence. The court ultimately stated that the evidence on record was sketchy and did not convincingly prove guilt, leading to the acquittal of the appellant.

[case 760]
Harikrishnan vs State Of Kerala on 16 June, 2020. The petitioner herein is arrayed as the 2 nd accused in Crime No. 1743 of 2019 of the Angamali Police Station, Ernakulam, registered under sections 363 and 376 r/w 212 of the Indian Penal Code. He has approached this Court seeking an order of pre-arrest bail. On 19. 10. 2019, the aforesaid crime was registered under Section 57 of the Kerala Police Act based on information furnished by one Mohammed Ferook stating that a 17-year-old girl who is his near relative is missing from her residential home from 18. 10. 2019 onwards. The 1st accused was later released on bail. After investigation, the final report was laid before the Judicial Magistrate. While the proceedings were pending, the de facto complainant disclosed that she was subjected to penetrative sexual abuse by the 1st accused. Based on the above information, Crime No. 223 of 2020 was registered inter alia under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 7 r/w. Section 8 of the POCSO Act.

[case 761]
Veer Singh Alias Veeru vs State Of U. P. And Another on 7 March, 2025. The applicant, Veer Singh, is facing charges of sexual offenses under the POCSO Act due to a consensual relationship with a prosecutrix who claims to be a victim. The applicant is arguing that the delay in filing the FIR, which was lodged almost five years after the alleged incidents, raises questions about the prosecution's legitimacy. The court considers whether this delay affects the prosecution's case. The applicant requests for the quashing of the FIR, citing the Supreme Court's stance on unexplained delays in lodging FIRs and the implication of false promises in cases of consensual relationships. The respondent's counsel argues that the delay does not negate the applicant's culpability, emphasizing that the applicant breached his promise of marriage, making him guilty under the law. The court ultimately denies the application, reaffirming the validity of the charges based on the prosecutrix's testimonies.

[case 762]
Shyam Singh vs State on 20 February, 2025. This is an appeal seeking to challenge the impugned judgment dated 13. 12. 2019 and order of sentence dated 17. 12. 2019 passed by the learned Court of ASJ-01, Patiala House Courts, Delhi in S. C. No. 8762/2016 arising out of F. I. R. No. 878/2014 registered at P. S. Vasant Vihar under Section 363 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC). The appellant was acquitted under Section 366 of IPC and was convicted under Section 376 of IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act). The factual background reveals that the prosecutrix was reported missing by her father who alleged that she was kidnapped by the appellant. Upon recovery, evidence indicated that the prosecutrix had established a consensual relationship with the appellant, who was only 19 years old at the time. The crux of the case revolves around the determination of the prosecutrix's age and whether her consent was valid given her claimed minority.

[case 763]
Dr Vijay Kumar And Anr vs State Of Karnataka on 22 August, 2024. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA. The case involves Dr. Vijay Kumar and a nurse, Devamma, charged with issuing a false birth certificate to a child born to Nagalaxmi. The police registered FIR No. 15/2024 alleging offenses under Sections 370 and 149 of IPC and Sections 80 and 81 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. The petitioners sought to quash the FIR, arguing they were not present at the hospital at the time of the child's birth and that they issued the certificate based on existing hospital records. The prosecution contended that the birth certificate issued was false and required further investigation due to petitioner No. 1's previous offenses. The court dismissed the petition, asserting that the investigation should proceed to uncover the full context of the allegations, emphasizing the severity of the accusations against the medical professionals and the necessity of accountability in child protection laws.

[case 764]
In the case of Smt. Anjali Shivhare vs Nitin Shivhare on 20 January, 2025, the court detailed the confrontations between the couple stemming mostly from claims of mental cruelty and domestic disputes revolving around their daughter, Ku. Aishwarya. Nitin claimed that Anjali's repeated allegations and public disputes caused him significant distress, enough to warrant a divorce. Anjali countered that she was subjected to undue pressure for dowry and verbal abuse, which also severely affected her emotional health. The court concluded that settling these claims required a forensic look into the mental cruelty definitions and how such actions reverberate through familial ties. A critical examination of the standards of living and emotional security were needed as the case proceeded, focusing on the implications for the child involved as well. The court found a need to ensure that any resolution allows both parties to maintain dignity while safeguarding the interests of their child.

[case 765]
The victim involved in the crime registered as 656 of 2020 by the Pulinkunnu police, has attempted to commit suicide on 16. 12. 2020 by cutting her veins on her left hand with a blade and she was immediately rushed to a hospital by her relatives and thus she was rescued. The Nurses attached to the hospital who attended the victim asked the reason for making such a suicide attempt by her, then, she disclosed a shocking news to them that she was subjected to sexual abuse and harassment including rape by her uncle with whom she is residing. They informed the same to her relatives and police and thus the crime was registered under Sections 376(2)(n), 376(2)(f), 323 and 506(i) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 11(iii), 3(a), 5(l), 5(m), 5(n) read with Section 6 and Section 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (for short 'POCSO Act') and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act against the petitioner, who is a lawyer by profession.

[case 766]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL MISCELLANEOUS No. 78541 of 2024 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -63 Year-2024 Thana- Cyber P. S. District- Sitamarhi Sidhant Kumar S/O Kumar Shankar Resident Of Village - Bahera Jahidpur, P. S -Nanpur, District Sitamarhi. .. Petitioner/s Versus 1. The State of Bihar 2. Birendra Kumar Singh, Addl. S. H. O, Cyber Police Station, Dist. - Sitamarhi. Bihar. .. Appearance: For the Petitioner/s: Mr. Ashhar Mustafa, Advocate Ms. Anita Kumari, Advocate For the Opposite Party/s: Mr. Jitendra Kumar Singh, APP. .. CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ASHOK KUMAR PANDEY ORAL ORDER 3 27-01-2025 Heard learned counsel for the petitioner and Mr. Jitendra Kumar Singh, learned APP for the State. 2. The petitioner has prayed for regular bail in a case registered for the offence punishable under sections 74, 75 of the BNS; Sections 67, 67B of IT Act and Sections 14 and 15 of POCSO Act. .. Considering the facts of the case the court is inclined to grant bail. ..

[case 767]
In the case at hand, apart from the ingredients of section 3 (a) and 7, ingredients of clauses (j), (i) (k) (l) (m) and (v) of section 9 of the POCSO Act are precisely attracted. [. .. ] Special Courts have been established for trial of such offences and for matters connected therewith and incidental thereto. While enacting the said Act, Article 15 of the Constitution which empowers the State to make special provisions for children, and the Convention of the Rights of the child, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations, as acceded to by the Government of India, prescribing a set of standards to be followed by all the State parties in securing the best interest of the child, were also kept in view. The POCSO Bill intended to enforce the rights of all children to safety, security and protection from sexual abuse and exploitation, and also intended to define explicitly the offences against children countered through commensurate penalties as an effective deterrence.

[case 768]
Smt. Mamta Tiwari vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 2 September, 2021. This criminal revision under Sections 397/401 of Cr. P. C. has been filed against the order dated 10. 08. 2018 passed by the Special Judge (POCSO Act), Gwalior in Special Case No. 86/2019, by which the charges under Sections 16 and 17 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short "POCSO Act") have been framed. It is submitted by the counsel for the applicant that the applicant is working as a Counsellor and during her routine inspection of Ashram Shanti Niketan Balika Grih, Birla Nagar, Hazira, Gwalior, the prosecutrix, who is mentally retarded minor and is staying in the Ashram informed that Jain Baba posted in the said Ashram was continuously violating her sexually. During the course of investigation, it was found that the applicant was aware of the physical violation of the minor prosecutrix, who was mentally retarded, and in spite of that, she did not take any action against Jain Baba.

[case 769]
Sri Javed Shafiq Rao vs State Of Karnataka on 10 February, 2025
This case highlights critical aspects of liability in child protection law, particularly in environments where children are present, such as residential complexes. The petitioner faced allegations for the electrocution of a minor due to stated negligence in ensuring safety protocols were followed while the swimming pool area was under his previous management. However, with evidence showing that control had been handed over prior to the incident, the court looked into the feasibility of holding any party liable under IPC sections addressing culpable homicide. The discussions revolved around accountability, especially in contexts where numerous parties could potentially be implicated. The court ultimately acknowledged the chain of command and control, resulting in a quashing of the FIR against the petitioner, deeming there was insufficient basis to hold him liable given the legal transfers of responsibility.

[case 770]
The petitioner - accused is sought to be prosecuted for the offence punishable under Section 376(2)(n) of IPC and Sections 4, 5(J)(II), 6 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The case of the prosecution is that, Shakthi Kendra, Chamarajanagara submitted a report stating that on 27. 4. 2023, the minor daughter of one Rajappa of Bandalli village, Hannur Taluk, was pregnant due to the intimacy and sexual act of the accused. After examining the educational records of the victim, it was noticed that the survivor was aged 17 years 11 months at the time of detection of pregnancy. The petitioner - accused, the respondent No. 2 - father of the survivor and the survivor are present before this Court and have filed an application under Section 320 read with Section 482 of Cr. PC stating that the father of the survivor, respondent No. 2- uncle of the survivor, uncle of the accused and the survivor, who is aged 18 years five months, all belong to the same family.

[case 771]
The learned Trial Court vide the impugned judgment has observed to the effect that as per the version of the victim, the accused had taken the victim to the upper floor in a room in front of the room of PW-5 i. e. the complainant and PW-5 i. e. the complainant in her statement had stated that the accused/respondent herein had taken the victim to the second floor but as per the site plan prepared in the instant case, there was no second floor in that building and that the site plan reflected only a house and did not mention whether it was first floor or the second floor or the room where the offence had been committed. It is significant to observe that while the court emphasized the need for corroboration, it also recognized the vulnerabilities and realities faced by child witnesses in such traumatic circumstances. The principle of justice mandates a careful balancing act in ensuring that the credibility of the childs testimony is not marred by procedural discrepancies.

[case 772]
M. Sivakumar vs State Rep. By on 18 July, 2022. The Criminal Original Petition is filed under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. , to call for the records and quash the F. I. R registered for the offence under Section 376, 417 and 506(ii) I. P. C against the petitioner in Crime No. 6 of 2021 on the file of the Inspector of Police, W-10, All Women Police Station, Flower Bazaar, Chennai. The allegation in the F. I. R indicates that both the petitioner and the defacto complainant / 2nd respondent had love affair and thereafter the accused appeared to have refused to marry the defacto complainant, thereby F. I. R. came to be registered for the offence under Section 376, 417 and 506(ii) I. P. C. Now, the petitioner and the defacto complainant appeared before this Court and they were identified by the respective counsel and the investigation officer. Both of them submitted that they are married on 04. 02. 2022 and living happily together now. They have also filed a marriage registration certificate.

[case 773]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to set aside the order dated 22. 01. 2018 passed in MP. No. 435 of 2018 in S. C. No. 311 of 2016 on the file of the Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Chennai and consequently, re-open and re-call Sangeetha (P. W. 2) for the cross examination of the petitioner. The petitioner is facing trial in S. C. No. 311 of 2016 before the Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Chennai for the offence under Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short "the POCSO Act"). It is seen that the victim girl was examined-in-chief on 22. 04. 2017 and she was not cross-examined by the learned counsel for the petitioner herein for the reasons best known to him. Thereafter, the petitioner filed CMP. No. 435 of 2018 in S. C. No. 311 of 2016 under Section 311 Cr. P. C. , to re-call the victim girl for cross-examination, which has been partly allowed by the trial Court on 22. 01. 2018, challenging which, the petitioner/accused is before this Court.

[case 774]
Sri Javed Shafiq Rao vs State Of Karnataka on 10 February, 2025
The case explores the implications of responsibility in negligence claims regarding child safety in residential complexes. In this instance, the petitioner, as Vice President of a property management firm, contested allegations implying negligence led to a childs electrocution in a swimming pool area. The complaints center on the failure to maintain safety standards and the ensuing tragic death. However, as the management firm had already handed over the facility to a governing homeowners association, arguments were presented that liability for safety and operational control lay with that entity. Thus, the Court assessed the evidence and emphasized that if the petitioner had indeed divested control, imposing liability on him could result in an abuse of legal process. The conclusion emphasized the importance of establishing the chain of responsibility in child safety incidents in residential settings.

[case 775]
This case poses a very important question of law: if a 15-year-old Muslim girl elopes with an 18-year-old Muslim boy, performs marriage with him and thereafter during her matrimonial life with that boy if she resides with him as his wife. Can that boy be treated as an offender under POCSO Act having committed sexual assault upon her? The facts of the case as borne out from the record are that on 01. 10. 2013, Mst. Nagma, mother of prosecutrix Z, a girl aged about 15 years (hereinafter referred to as 'prosecutrix') went to PS Shalimar Bagh and lodged a missing persons report in respect of prosecutrix by stating that she had been missing from home since 24. 09. 2013. She expressed suspicion against accused Rashid, her neighbour, to have enticed and taken her away. On the basis of the statement of Mst. Nagma, case FIR in the matter was registered and the matter was entrusted for investigation to SI Deepak Dahiya, who got the matter reported with the missing persons squad.

[case 776]
Ghanshyam vs State on 10 April, 2019. Ghanshyam challenges the impugned judgment dated 29th October, 2015 convicting him for offence punishable under Section 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short 'POCSO Act') and the order on sentence dated 2nd November 2015 directing him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of five years and to pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/-, in default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of six months, for offence punishable under Section 10 of POCSO Act. Assailing the conviction, Learned Counsel for the appellant contends that there is no evidence on record except the statement of the victim child. He further states that there was previous enmity between the appellant and the parents of the victim. The prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt from the testimony of the victim. The victim was 10-11 years old at the time of the offense, and her testimony was supported by her mother.

[case 777]
Dilip Singh Yadav vs State Of U. P. And 2 Other on 18 August, 2021. This bail application under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure has been filed by the applicant Dilip Singh Yadav, seeking enlargement on bail during trial in connection with Case Crime No. 1105 of 2020, under Section(s) 363, 366, 376 I. P. C. , under Section 5/6 POCSO Act and under Section 3(2)V S. C. /S. T. Act, registered at P. S. Sorraon, District Prayagraj. The victim stated that she had a love affair with the applicant and is pregnant as a result of their relationship. The victim's age has been indicated to be above 16 and below 18 years, leading to arguments that the charges are based on consent. The opposing counsel argues that the applicant established a physical relationship and is now refusing to marry the victim. The court reviews the nature of evidence and the absence of convicing material indicating the possibility of tampering, leading to the decision to grant bail with conditions.

[case 778]
Nitin Singhal And Another vs State Of U. P. And Another on 12 January, 2018. High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, reserved application U/S 482 No. 40971 of 2017. The case started with a F. I. R. dated 19. 08. 2017 alleging that a minor, Ronit, was sexually abused and blackmailed by his teacher, Nitin Singhal, and others. The minors were shown obscene videos, and there were serious allegations of mental depravity involved, as well as the impact on the teacher-student relationship. The judge highlights that some parties arrived at a settlement, which led to an argument to quash the prosecution under Section 482 Cr. P. C. However, the court emphasizes that certain serious crimes such as mental depravity against a minor are not merely private disputes, and the case cannot be dismissed lightly based on the settlement. The judgement reinforces that crimes against children, especially of this nature, have a public interest element, and thus, cannot be settled out of court.

[case 779]
A B C vs State Of Gujarat on 8 November, 2023 The mother of the victim has approached this Court seeking following relief: - 'Your Lordships may be pleased to issue appropriate writ or order or direction to the respondent authority to terminate the pregnancy of the petitioner who is aged 12 years and 6 months, at the earliest, as the same being in the best interest of the victim, considering her very young age, physical health and incident of rape causing grave injury to her mental health and further be pleased to direct the respondent no. 3 to hand over, in scientific manner, the tissues drawn from the fetus for DNA identification to the Police Inspector, Rajpipla Police Station, Narmada for onward transmission of the same to the concerned Forensic Science Laboratory, interest of justice. ' Since minor is the victim of sexual abuse, her identity has not been disclosed in this order and she has been referred to as the 'minor' or the 'victim' in the entire order.

[case 780]
In the case Santhosh Achari vs State Of Karnataka, it is noted that the petitioner, Santhosh Achari, and the 2nd respondent, Sujatha Naik, were husband and wife who experienced significant marital discord, resulting in legal action concerning custody and claims of abuse. The husband accused the wife and a third party of threatening him and demanding money regarding the custody of their child. The High Court evaluated the validity of the allegations made in the complaint, particularly concerning the provisions under the SC/ST (POA) Act, 1989, and various sections of the Indian Penal Code. The court determined that the allegations lacked specific details and, declaring the proceedings an abuse of the judicial process, set aside the earlier cognizance taken by the trial court. The court also noted the mutual consent divorce obtained by both parties, highlighting the importance of legal procedures in situations involving domestic disputes and child custody claims.

[case 781]
In the case of Debasish Das vs The State Of West Bengal & Anr decided on 16 May 2023, the appellate court addressed many details surrounding the conviction of Debasish Das under the POCSO Act for sexually assaulting two young girls. The court pointed out that the legal proceedings began when a complaint was lodged, indicating that the accused used candies to lure the children and committed acts of sexual intention. Following a thorough investigation with testimonies from various witnesses including victims, their parents, and medical reports, it was noted that although the trial court convicted the accused based on the testimonies, questions arose about inconsistencies in the evidence and the credibility of witness testimonies. Ultimately, the court decided to set aside the trial court's judgment, acquitting the defendant, and raising concerns about the legal framework concerning child protection and the necessity for stringent scrutiny under POCSO guidelines.

[case 782]
Sc No. 45/14: Fir No. 410/13: Ps Rani Bagh. .. vs Dharmender @ Dadi on 12 January, 2016 J U D G M E N T: 1. The facts of the case as borne out from the record are that on 21. 11. 2013, after entrustment of DD No. 28A Ex PW18/A, regarding quarrel PW13 HC Jagbir went to the spot i. e. Jhuggi No. 5, Near Nilambar Apartment, Pitampura, Rani Bagh, Delhi and thereafter, as per the directions of Senior officers, PW18 W/SI Upkar Kaur also reached there along with PW7 L/Ct. Ritu and the police party met PW9 Smt. Sona, mother of the child D (hereinafter referred to as 'child victim') and on inquiry, she told PW18 that PW8 Jyoti, daughter of her jethani had told her about the repeated sexual assault committed upon child victim by Gappu @ Ajay (since JCL) and accused Dharmender @ Dadi. On coming to know about this, PW18 got the child victim medically examined at Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital vide MLC Ex. PW5/A and seized her sealed exhibits vide seizure memo Ex. PW7/A.

[case 783]
Gaurav Singh @ Gaurav vs State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Deptt. Of. .. on 24 February, 2025. Gaurav Singh is facing serious charges under various sections of law, including the POCSO Act and SC/ST Act. The court hears arguments from both the applicant's and the prosecution's representatives, noting that the applicant has been falsely implicated as there are no allegations directly against him in the FIR. The prosecutrix herself states that she has not accused Gaurav, focusing blame primarily on three other individuals. The court contemplates the nature of the bail application, given that the applicant has no prior criminal history and has assured compliance with bail terms. Ultimately, the court decides to grant bail to Gaurav under strict conditions, emphasizing the importance of court attendance and cooperation in the trial process. Failure to adhere to these conditions may result in serious legal penalties, including further proceedings for non-compliance.

[case 784]
Sheshagiri @ Ravi S/O. Balakrishna. .. vs The State Of Karnataka on 8 July, 2020. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA DHARWAD BENCH DATED THIS THE 08TH DAY OF JULY, 2020 PRESENT THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE B. A. PATIL AND THE HON'BLE MRS. JUSTICE M. G. UMA CRIMINAL APPEAL No. 100328/2017 BETWEEN: SHESHAGIRI @ RAVI, S/O. BALAKRISHNA KULKARNI, AGE: 46 YEARS, OCC: COOK, R/O: SHREERAMNAGAR, NEAR TULUJABHAVANI TEMPLE, DHARWAD. .. . APPELLANT (BY SRI NAMADEV S. BADIGER, ADVO CATE) AND THE STATE OF KARNATAKA, R/BY PUBLIC PROSECUTOR, HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA DHARWAD BENCH, THROUGH VIDYAGIRI POLICE STATION, DHARWAD. .. . RESPONDENT (BY SRI V. M. BANAKAR, ADDL. SPP) THIS CRIMINAL APPEAL IS FILED UNDER SECTION 374(2) OF CR. P. C. , PRAYING TO ALLOW THE PRESENT APPEAL BY SETTING ASIDE THE JUDGMENT DATED 16. 08. 2017 PASSED BY THE COURT OF THE II ADDL. DISTRICT AND SESSIONS AND SPL. JUDGE DHARWAD IN SPL. S. C. NO. 34 OF 2016 FOR OFFENCES PUNISHABLE UNDER SECTION 376 OF IPC AND SEC. 6 OF POCSO ACT. .. .

[case 785]
In relation to FIR No. 60, dated 15. 3. 2013, for commission of offence, under the provisions of Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code, registered at Police Station Sadar, Una, Himachal Pradesh, accused Gurmukh Singh, hereinafter referred to as the accused, was charged to face trial for having committed offence punishable under the provisions of Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code. On the strength of the evidence led by the prosecution, the accused was convicted of the offence punishable under these provisions and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of seven years and pay a fine. The case involved a young girl who was assaulted in a forest, highlighting the seriousness of child sexual offences and the legal frameworks designed to protect minors. The prosecution's case rested on the victims testimony and corroborative evidence from family members and medical reports.

[case 786]
In a case before the Allahabad High Court, a juvenile identified as X sought bail from the Juvenile Justice Board under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. His request was denied on grounds indicating that his release could lead him to associate with known criminals and that there was no effective control by the parents. The judgment highlights the balance the Juvenile Justice Board must strike in protecting the juvenile's rights while considering the gravity of the offenses, which include robbery and murder. The court ultimately found the Board's reasoning inadequate, stressing that the law mandates a presumption of innocence and that bail should ordinarily be granted unless compelling criteria based on evidence suggest otherwise. It pointed out the necessity of closely evaluating social investigation reports that can portray the juvenile's true circumstances, including any risks linked to his prior associations or situation.

[case 787]
Satyanarayan Mishra vs State Of Odisha. .. .. Opposite Party on 7 March, 2025. The prosecution story, in brief, is that the victim lodged the complaint before the Salepur P. S. inter alia alleging therein that after the death of her father, her mother was working as a maid servant in the house of the present Petitioner. Both the victim and her mother were residing in the house of the Petitioner. Thereafter, her mother left the house of the Petitioner in connection with the studies of her son (the brother of the victim), leaving the victim behind at the Petitioner's house to do the household work. The victim used to sleep in the room in the ground-floor of the house and the Petitioner would come to her room and against the wishes of the victim, he used to kiss and molest her. Eventually, the victim was rescued by a Child Welfare Officer. Thereafter, a report has been lodged before the Salepur P. S. for commission of offences as has been indicated hereinabove.

[case 788]
Madras High Court, Antony vs State Rep. By on 2 August, 2022. Crl. A(MD)No. 381 of 2019. This criminal appeal is filed against the judgment and order dated 19. 07. 2019 in S. C. No. 64 of 2015, on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Tirunelveli, Tirunelveli District. The prosecution story runs thus: The victim girl X is the daughter of Ponnuthai [P. W. 1] and Iyyadurai [P. W. 3]. She was born on 10. 07. 2004. .. On a written complaint [Ex. P. 1], given by Ponnuthai [P. W. 1], Jeyashri [P. W. 21], Sub-Inspector of Police, registered a case in Alangulam Police Station Crime No. 7 of 2015. .. The trial Court has directed that out of the total fine amount of Rs. 1, 20, 000/-, a sum of Rs. 1, 00, 000/- should be paid to X, apart from which, the trial Court has also awarded a compensation of Rs. 2, 00, 000/- to X under Section 357(A) Cr. P. C. , payable by the Government. Challenging the aforesaid conviction and sentences, the present Criminal Appeal has been filed.

[case 789]
Heard Dr. Arun Srivastava, learned counsel for the revisionist and Sri Ghanshyam Kesarwani, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material available on record. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his father under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as "JJ Act, 2015") against the judgment dated 20. 02. 2023 passed by Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge (POCSO Act), Bareilly in Criminal Appeal No. 102 of 2022, whereby the appellate court has rejected the Criminal appeal and affirmed the order dated 13. 09. 2022 passed by Juvenile Justice Board, Bareilly. The Juvenile Justice Board has rejected the bail application of the revisionist, which has been filed by his natural guardian/father, under Section 12 of "JJ Act, 2015" in Case Crime No. 227 of 2022, under Sections 302, 323, 504, 506, 452 & 34 of the Indian Penal Code (in short "I. P. C. ").

[case 790]
This Criminal Appeal has been filed against the Judgment of Conviction and Sentence, dated 28. 01. 2019, made in S. C. No. 09 of 2017, on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Fast Track Mahila Court, Krishnagiri. The respondent-police has registered a case in Crime No. 09 of 2017 against the appellant for the offences under Section 366 of IPC, and Section 5 r/w 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for brevity 'the POCSO Act'), and Section 9 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. After completing the investigation, laid a charge sheet. Since the offence committed against the minor, the learned Sessions Judge, Fast Track Mahila Court, Krishnagiri, taken the case on file in Special S. C. No. 09 of 2017. After completing the formalities, framed the charges against the appellant for the offence under Section 366 of IPC, and Section 5 r/w 6 of POCSO Act, and Section 9 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 and conducted the trial.

[case 791]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL MISCELLANEOUS No. 89565 of 2024 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -284 Year-2024 Thana- KALYANPUR District- East Champaran 1. Rupendra Sah @ Rupindra Sah @ Supindra. .. vs The State of Bihar on 8 January, 2025. The petitioners apprehend arrest in connection with Kalyanpur P. S. Case No. 284 of 2024 dated 30. 08. 2024, instituted for the offense punishable under Sections 127(1), 115(2), 117(2), 109, 352, 3(5) of the B. N. S. The prosecution case, in short, is that on the date of occurrence, in the night for the sake of child dispute, all the accused persons came at the door of informant and started abusing her. The informant's husband was assaulted leading to injuries. The informant attempts to protect her husband, facing abuse herself. The petitioners claim innocence and assert that they have been falsely implicated. The court considers the arguments before deciding on anticipatory bail under specific conditions.

[case 792]
The petitioner is the second accused in SC No. 39 of 2019 on the file of the Additional Sessions Court-I, Kasaragod, arising out of Crime No. 551 of 2018 of Bekal Police Station for the offences punishable under Section 354(A) of the IPC and Section 7 r/w Sections 8 & 21(1) of the POCSO Act. The brief of the prosecution case is that the first accused, who is the ustad in the Madrasa, wherein the victim child is studying, had sexually abused the minor victim girl and the petitioner mother did not inform the matter to the police in time, and the SI of Police, Bekal Police Station registered Crime No. 551/2018 and after investigation, he filed the final report. It is pointed out that the prosecution allegation against the petitioner is false. The petitioner herein, the second accused, is the mother of the minor victim child, and it is pointed out that she was never aware about the abuse by the ustad and that she never suppressed anything from the police.

[case 793]
Mr. X- Juvenile vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 4 April, 2023
HON'BLE SANJAY KUMAR PACHORI, J.
1. Heard Sri Shivam Yadav, Advocate holding brief of Sri Rajesh Yadav, learned counsel for the revisionist, Sri Ghanshyam Kesarwani, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material available on record. Despite service of notice upon opposite party No. 2, none appears on his behalf. ..
24. Let the revisionist, aged about 15 years, 1 month and 6 days old, who is in observation home since 25. 4. 2022 be released on bail via assurance and surety given by his natural guardian/mother, in Case Crime No. 20 of 2022, under Sections 363, 366, 376, 504, 506 of the I. P. C. and Section 3/4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, Police Station- Bidhuna, District- Auraiya, after furnishing a personal bond on his mother (Smt. Maya Devi) with two sureties of his relatives each in the like amount to the satisfaction of Juvenile Justice Board. ..

[case 794]
In the case of Ramesh vs State represented by the Inspector of Police, the Madras High Court confirmed the judgment convicting Ramesh under Section 4 of the POCSO Act for committing penetrative sexual assault against a minor girl. The victim, aged 17 years and 4 months at the time, reported that Ramesh, her neighbor, had followed her while she was attending nature's call and sexually assaulted her after inducing her under false pretenses. The prosecution provided substantial evidence, including testimonies from the victim's parents and medical examinations, supporting the claims of assault. The trial court sentenced Ramesh to seven years of rigorous imprisonment and ordered him to pay a fine of Rs. 25, 000, to be given as compensation to the victim. The appeal against this conviction was subsequently dismissed by the Madras High Court, reaffirming the conviction of the accused based on the weight and credibility of the evidences presented in court.

[case 795]
Raju S/O Sreedharan, C. No. 1563 vs State Of Kerala on 26 August, 2022. .. The appeal has been preferred under Sections 374(2) and 384 of the Cr. P. C by the accused in S. C. No. 35/2016. .. The victim was a minor girl aged only 6 years. .. The prosecution case in short is that, on a day in the month of April 2012. .. the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim inside her house. .. The crime was registered by the S. I of Police. .. The accused appeared at the court below and after hearing both sides, the court below framed charge against him under Section 376 of the IPC and the POCSO Act. .. It was not successfully challenged in cross-examination. .. The evidence of PW1 gets corroboration from the medical evidence submitted by the prosecution. .. The delay in sexual offence has to be viewed differently. .. Therefore, presumption of guilt and sexual intent could be drawn against the accused. .. Accordingly, this criminal appeal stands dismissed.

[case 796]
Kumar @ Kumaresan vs State on 21 August, 2017 The victim boy is the son the defacto complainant. On 17. 11. 2016, the victim boy went to his grandmothers house and stayed there. Next day morning at about 9. 00 a. m. , he went to school by a mini bus. After the school was over, he did not reach back to his parents house. On the way to his home he got down at Erode bus stand and was urinating behind the bus. The accused who came there in a motorcycle took the victim boy by telling that he would drop him at his house. As the accused took a different road, the victim boy questioned him. The accused threatened the victim boy and took him to a house in a place called Otta methai. During night times, the accused confined the victim inside a room and compelled him to have oral sex with him. He also committed anus- penile penetrative sexual offence with the boy. Whenever the boy cried out of fear, he was beaten by the accused. This had happened for one week.

[case 797]
Mrs. Praveena vs The Child Welfare Committee (North) on 5 April, 2024. W. P. No. 4843 of 2024. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 05. 04. 2024. CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. M. SUBRAMANIAM. Mrs. Praveena. .. Petitioner. Vs. 1. The Child Welfare Committee (North), Through its President / Chairman, 2. Mariyakaya Girls Home. .. Respondents. Prayer: Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Mandamus, directing the 1st respondent to consider petitioner representation dated 16. 02. 2024 and to direct the 1st respondent to pass an order to give custody of the petitioner's minor adopted child namely A. Prithika aged about 11 years to petitioner. The minor girl is aged about 11 years and informed the School Teacher that she had been abused by the said Boopalan in the house. .. . The child must be allowed to continue her studies by staying at Sevasadhan under the custody of the Government authorities.

[case 798]
Vishal Maurya (Minor) Thru. Father. .. vs State Of U. P. & 2 Others on 17 August, 2021. This criminal revision has been preferred by the juvenile Vishal Maurya through his father Badri Prasad, under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 against judgement and order dated 7. 1. 2020 passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge (POCSO Act), Sultanpur. The revisionist has against the order of learned J. J. Board, that was rejected on 14. 11. 2019. On 13. 6. 2019, a First Information Report was registered. The victim is a minor aged 17 years, and the involvement of Vishal is questioned. He was detained since 1. 10. 2019. The legal position stipulates that for a juvenile in conflict with law, bail is the rule, and it can only be denied in exceptional cases. The court found that there was no sufficient ground to deny bail to Vishal, allowing his release on bail under certain conditions stipulated in the order.

[case 799]
Arumugam vs State Rep By on 5 March, 2021

Madras High Court
Arumugam vs State Rep By on 5 March, 2021
Author: P. Velmurugan
Bench: P. Velmurugan
Crl. A. No. 694 of 2019

Arumugam.
State rep by: -
The Inspector of Police,
All Women Police Station,
East Coimbatore,
Coimbatore District.
Respondent

Criminal Appeal filed under Section 374 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure to set aside the Judgment of Mahila Court, Fast Track, Coimbatore dated 28. 12. 2017 passed in Spl. C. C. No. 2 of 2017 in erroneously convicting the appellant herein under Section 9(m) r/w Section 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act 2012 sentencing him to 7 years rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs. 2, 500/-.

[case 800]
In the court of Ashwani Kumar Sarpal, Addl. Sessions Judge1 cum Presiding Officer of Special Court under POCSO Act, (East District), Karkardooma Courts, Delhi. FIR NO. 73/12 PSGokal Puri U/S363/376 (2)/323/ 354/366A/377/367/ 120B/34 IPC STATE VS. SADDAM & PARVEJ (SC 28/2013) JUDGMENT:  It has been confirmed through the medical reports called by the court during trial that both the accused are deaf and dumb. .. . Hence, it is hereby held that prosecution has fully proved the case beyond doubt and all the charges framed against accused persons are established. Accordingly, both the accused persons are hereby convicted for offence of hatching criminal conspiracy to commit rape and unnatural offence after kidnapping victim under section 120B. Accused persons are also convicted for offences under sections 323, 363 & 366A read with section 120B IPC. They are also convicted under sections 376(2)(g) and 377 IPC. ..

[case 801]
This Bail Application HAVING COME UP FOR ADMISSION ON 30. 07. 2019, the court on the same day passed the following orders. The petitioner will immediately surrender and personally appear before the Investigating Officer in relation to the instant crime, for interrogation purposes, without any further delay, at any rate by 9 a. m. on any day on or before 14. 08. 2019. The petitioner will fully co-operate with the Investigating Officer in the conduct of the above interrogation process. After completing the above interrogation process, the Investigating Officer will produce the petitioner before the jurisdictional Magistrate court concerned in relation to the instant crime, thereupon the learned Magistrate will consider and pass orders on the bail application of the petitioner on the same day of his production, after hearing the petitioner's counsel and the learned Public Prosecutor and after taking due note of the facts and circumstances of this case.

[case 802]
Noushad vs State Of Kerala on 21 March, 2025. The petitioner is an accused in Crime No. 1492/2024 of Aranmula Police Station. Petitioner is a lawyer practising in this Court. He is alleged to have committed rape on a minor girl. The offences alleged are under Sections 376(2)(j), 376(2)(n), 376(3), 377, 506 of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 75 & 77 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, and various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The victim, a Plus-2 student, disclosed she was compelled to consume alcohol by the petitioner before he sexually assaulted her. Following the incident, the victim informed her aunt after one week. The Public Prosecutor opposed bail, citing clear evidence of rape, while the petitioner's counsel argued the accusations were false. The court, upon reviewing reports, held that a prima facie case is made against the petitioner and denied anticipatory bail.

[case 803]
Rakesh Kumar vs State Of Haryana on 5 September, 2018. This petition under Section 438 Cr. P. C. for pre-arrest bail has been filed by Rakesh Kumar, an accused in FIR No. 30 dated 6. 7. 2018 under Section 8 of POCSO Act and 216 IPC, registered at Women Police Station, Yamuna Nagar. The prosecutrix aged about 16 years had gone to her BARA from her house at village Dhaurang, District Yamuna Nagar, and Rakesh misbehaved with her. The prosecutrix narrated the entire story to her parents, and police was informed. Apprehending his arrest in this case, Rakesh approached the Court of Sessions seeking grant of pre-arrest bail, which was declined. The petitioner has approached this Court asking for similar relief. The allegations against the petitioner are quite serious and grave, indicating an increase in child abuse incidents. Custodial interrogation is required for a complete investigation. Thus finding no merit in the petition, the same stands dismissed.

[case 804]
Mrs. Praveena vs The Child Welfare Committee (North) on 5 April, 2024. W. P. No. 4843 of 2024. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 05. 04. 2024. CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. M. SUBRAMANIAM. Mrs. Praveena. .. Petitioner. Vs. 1. The Child Welfare Committee (North), Through its President / Chairman, 2. Mariyakaya Girls Home. .. Respondents. Prayer: Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Mandamus, directing the 1st respondent to consider petitioner representation dated 16. 02. 2024 and to direct the 1st respondent to pass an order to give custody of the petitioner's minor adopted child namely A. Prithika aged about 11 years to petitioner. The minor girl is aged about 11 years and informed the School Teacher that she had been abused by the said Boopalan in the house. The learned counsel for the 1st respondent would submit that the child should remain in the Government Home for her safety.

[case 805]
In the case of State vs. Hitesh, the court examined the prosecution's claims regarding a 17-year-old girl who alleged she was involved in a sexual relationship with the accused. The prosecution failed to establish the victim's age beyond reasonable doubt, which is crucial under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The trial court acquitted the accused, noting that the victim had consented to the relationship. The High Court of Delhi upheld this decision, emphasizing that without conclusive evidence regarding the victim's age, the case could not support a conviction under the POCSO Act. The prosecution did not sufficiently substantiate the victim's age based on school records and other forms of identification, ultimately leading to the dismissal of the appeal by the state, stating the victim, despite being close to the age of majority, had consented to the relationship and hence, the case lacked the grounds to proceed.

[case 806]
In the case of Dinesh @ Dineshkumar vs State, reported on 8 March 2024, a key issue revolves around the actions of the accused who allegedly had physical relations with a minor girl. The girl, P. W-1, left her home on 26 June 2014 with the accused and was later found under circumstances that led to criminal charges being brought under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The prosecution provided evidence claiming that the girl was taken from her lawful guardians and subjected to sexual assault. The court had to consider various factors including the age of consent, the nature of their relationship, and the factual circumstances surrounding her departure from home, which ultimately led to a conviction for the accused. However, upon review, the appellate court found that the original trial might have erred in interpreting the evidence, especially regarding the voluntary aspect of the girl's departure and her subsequent actions.

[case 807]
Amardeep Singh vs State (Gnct Of Delhi) And Anr. on 12 February, 2025. This case involves a bail application under Section 483 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 for Amardeep Singh who has been charged with FIR No. 512/24 under Sections 376/313 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. The bail application has been dismissed previously, and it is claimed by the Applicant that the relationship with the Complainant was consensual, suggesting it was honey trapping. The Prosecutrix, a qualified woman, alleges that she was persuaded to abort her pregnancies under emotional pressure from the Applicant. The court is considering the gravity of the allegations, the timeline of events, and the nature of the relationship before deciding on the bail. The court has laid down certain conditions for bail, including that the applicant shall surrender his passport, shall not leave the country, and shall not contact the prosecutrix or influence witnesses.

[case 808]
Madras High Court Anbuselvi vs The Superintendent Of Police on 29 July, 2022. It is the case of the petitioner that her daughter X aged 15 years, is in the illegal custody of the fourth respondent and in order to secure her daughter, the present Habeas Corpus Petition is filed. X is produced before us from the fourth respondent Home. X is the daughter of the petitioner and Jegajothimani, who had sexually abused his own daughter X. A case in Virudhunagar East Police Station in Crime No. 59 of 2022 was registered under Sections 7, 8, 5(l), 5(n) and 6 of the POCSO Act. The Child Welfare Committee, Virudhunagar has passed orders on 16. 06. 2022, lodging X in the fourth respondent Home, until she attains the age of 18. These facts are not known to the petitioner and therefore, she filed the present Habeas Corpus Petition, alleging that X is in the illegal custody of the fourth respondent.

[case 809]
Mrs. Praveena vs The Child Welfare Committee (North) on 5 April, 2024. W. P. No. 4843 of 2024. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 05. 04. 2024. CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. M. SUBRAMANIAM. Mrs. Praveena. .. Petitioner. Vs. 1. The Child Welfare Committee (North), Through its President / Chairman, 2. Mariyakaya Girls Home. .. Respondents. Prayer: Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Mandamus, directing the 1st respondent to consider petitioner representation dated 16. 02. 2024 and to direct the 1st respondent to pass an order to give custody of the petitioner's minor adopted child namely A. Prithika aged about 11 years to petitioner. The minor girl is aged about 11 years and informed the School Teacher that she had been abused by the said Boopalan in the house. .. . The child was referred to the Psychologist / Government Children Home, who in turn submitted a psychological report.

[case 810]
Rajbali Sahani vs State Of U. P. And Another on 31 March, 2023. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his real uncle under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 against the judgment and order dated 13. 12. 2022 passed by Special Judge POCSO Act. The bail application under Section 12 of JJ Act, 2015 has been rejected by the Juvenile Justice Board and appellate court on several grounds, including the belief that the revisionist may associate with known criminals. The court also emphasizes the importance of proper consideration of the social investigation report in determining bail. The Juvenile Justice Act provides specific guidelines to ensure the protection of juveniles, and the circumstances under which a juvenile may be denied bail are clearly defined. The case highlights the balance between the gravity of the offense and the rights of juveniles under the law.

[case 811]
Smt Suman Devi vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 11 February, 2025. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 46694 of 2024. Applicant: - Smt Suman Devi. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. And 3 Others. Counsel for Applicant: - Krishna Kumar Mishra, Ratan Kumar Mishra. Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J. The FIR was instituted against the applicant of having involved in sex trade, whereby her husband is stated to have raped the daughter of the informant aged about 15 years. The applicant is absolutely innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case. The victim in her statement recorded does not level allegations against the applicant of having involved in sex trade. The case of the applicant stands distinguished from her husband. The well-known principle of 'Presumption of Innocence Unless Proven Guilty' gives rise to bail as a rule and imprisonment as an exception.

[case 812]
X vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 20 February, 2023. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his uncle under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 against the judgment dated 29. 03. 2022 passed by Special Judge (POCSO) Act/ Additional Sessions Judge, Siddharth Nagar in Criminal Appeal No. 10 of 2022, whereby the appellate court has rejected the Criminal appeal and affirmed the order dated 15. 02. 2022 passed by the Juvenile Justice Board, Siddharth Nagar. The Juvenile Justice Board has rejected the bail application of the revisionist, which has been filed by his natural guardian/uncle, under Section 12 of "JJ Act, 2015" in Misc. Case No. 44 of 2021, arising out of Case Crime No. 143 of 2021, under Sections 363, 366, 376(3), 342 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3/4 Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, Police Station- Lotan District- Siddharth Nagar.

[case 813]
Smt. Shabnam Khatoon @ Sandisha And. .. vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 5 August, 2019. In this habeas corpus petition, the petitioner no. 2, Amjad Hussain, has prayed for a direction upon the third respondent to produce the corpus (Shabnam @ Sandisha) before the Court and to set her at liberty after recording her statement. A perusal of the record would reveal that Nirmala Devi (respondent no. 4) had lodged a first information report at P. S. Nichlaul, District Maharajganj, on 21. 12. 2016, which was registered for offences punishable under Sections 363, 366 IPC and Section 7/8 of Pocso Act as Case Crime No. 625 of 2016. In the said first information report, one of the accused was Amjad Hussain (petitioner no. 2). It was alleged in the first information report that informant's daughter, Km. Sandisha (corpus), had studied in Purva Madhyamik Vidayalaya Kohadval upto class VIII, she is aged 14 years; and she has been enticed away by the accused.

[case 814]
In the case of Irfan Mehmud Pathan vs The Sr. Police Inspector on 17 October 2018, the Bombay High Court reviewed two criminal appeals related to the rejection of bail applications under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, concerning serious accusations against the appellants for a crime that involved the abuse of two minor children from a Scheduled Caste. The court heard the arguments from both sides, including the seriousness of the offenses, the evidence presented, and the implications of the actions taken by the appellants. The High Court ultimately deemed that the risk of tampering with evidence warranted the dismissal of the appeals and directed that the trial should proceed expeditiously. The decision highlights the need for sensitivity towards the legal protections afforded to vulnerable populations under child protection laws and the obligations of the court to uphold these laws vigorously.

[case 815]
Kartik Gulabbhai Vanjara vs State Of Gujarat on 7 November, 2023. By way of the present application under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, the applicants accused have prayed to release them on anticipatory bail in the event of their arrest in connection with the FIR being C. R. No. 11195010230440 of 2023 registered with Palanpur West Police Station, Dist. Banaskantha, for the offences punishable under Sections 363 and 366 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and subsequently added Sections 354, 354(A)(1)(i), 342, 506(2) and 114 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Sections 8 and 18 of the POCSO Act. The applicants denied the accusations, claiming they have been falsely implicated. The court also noted that the two victims included a minor aged 15 years, leading to the application of the POCSO Act. The court ultimately denied the anticipatory bail, citing the seriousness of the charges and the potential for tampering with evidence.

[case 816]
The petitioner has been arrayed as the sole accused in Crime No. 879/2019 of Alappuzha South Police Station, which has been registered for offences punishable under Secs. 7 & 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012. The gist of the prosecution case is that, on 6. 6. 2019 at about 12. 30 pm the petitioner accused aged 29 years with the intention to sexually abuse the minor girl child aged 11 years, had caught hold of her hand at the playground of St. Anthony's L. P. School, Alappuzha, and when the girl's brother and others had intervened, he fled away and hid himself in a bathroom. Later he was arrested on 6. 6. 2019 and has been under judicial custody since then. Counsel for the petitioner would point out that the abovesaid allegations have been falsely foisted on him, and that taking into consideration the nature of the allegations in this crime, his continued detention is no longer necessary as he has already suffered detention for the last more than 40 days.

[case 817]
This application is filed under Section 439 of the Cr. P. C. Crime No. 332/2020 of Punaloor Police Station was registered against the petitioner under Sections 450, 506, 376AB of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 3A, 3(b), 4, 51, 5(m), 6, 11(V), 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. He seeks regular bail. On 31. 1. 2019 at about 3 p. m. , the petitioner is alleged to have trespassed into the residential home of a minor child aged 11 years and after showing pornographic videos and under threat, subjected her to penetrative sexual abuse. He allegedly repeated the act on 07. 09. 2019. I find that a coordinate Bench of this Court had occasion to consider the application seeking bail filed by the petitioner and after a detailed analysis of the facts and circumstances had denied bail by order dated 5. 5. 2020. The materials available portray that the act allegedly committed by the petitioner reek of extreme depravity.

[case 818]
In the case of X vs State (NCT of Delhi) & Anr. , the petitioner seeks to set aside an order granting bail to the respondent No. 2, who has been accused of raping a woman suffering from bipolar disorder. The prosecutrix, represented by her father, had initially shown mental vulnerabilities that were manipulated by the accused. The argument is based on a failure of the court to recognize the effect of her mental state on her ability to consent, alongside the serious nature of the crimes committed. The court evaluates various factors in determining the bail conditions and eventually the application for bail was cancelled due to the gravity of the charges and the apparent manipulation of the prosecutrix's condition by the accused. The learned Additional Sessions Judge noted contradictions and failures in the statements given during the bail hearing, ultimately leading to the decision that bail was improperly granted and should be rescinded.

[case 819]
Ajay Kumar Jatav vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 6 January, 2023. This application coming on for hearing this day, the court passed the following: This is the second repeat bail application under Section 439 Cr. P. C filed on behalf of the applicant. The applicant is in custody since 22. 08. 2022 in connection with Crime No. 249/2021 for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366, 376, 506 of IPC and Section 3/4 of POCSO Act. A s per prosecution story, the applicant had manipulated the prosecutrix and on false promise of marriage had called her to his house. The prosecutrix after coming back home had narrated the whole incident to her parents and FIR was lodged. The learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is innocent. Per contra, learned Panel Lawyer opposes the bail application and submits that the applicants innocence is disputed or questioned in light of the serious nature of the charges brought against him.

[case 820]
In a notable case on 7th May 2018, the court reviewed the facts surrounding State vs. Pankaj Kumar Jha regarding the sexual assault of a prosecutrix who is related to the accused by marriage. The prosecutrix contended that her brother-in-law, over a span of several years, blackmailed her and coerced her into sexual relations through threats, including exposure of intimate photographs. The prosecution argued that the accused's consistent threats influenced the prosecutrix's compliance, thus undermining her consent. The court examined the circumstances under which the prosecutrix's consent was allegedly obtained and the implications of coercion and fear in legal determinations regarding consent. Ultimately, the evidence painted a grim picture of the abuse the prosecutrix endured, leading to her eventual disclosure of the crime to her family and law enforcement, culminating in the filing of multiple legal complaints against the accused.

[case 821]
This petition for release on bail under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr. P. C), in case arising out of first information report (FIR) no. 224/2016, involving offences punishable under Sections 354A/365/367/376/377/342/506 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) and Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act) of police station Nabi Karim, has brought to light a very disturbing background. The petitioner, accused in two session cases involving sexual offences against a child, has faced serious allegations supported by the prosecutrixs testimony. The case has raised concerns over the safety of the prosecutrix as intimidation attempts reportedly follow her testimony in court. These procedural elements provoke inquiry into what legal protections and actions are available to ensure the prosecutrix's safety and the integrity of the judicial process.

[case 822]
Jalaluddin @ Jalalu @ Jamalu And Ors vs The State Of Bihar on 20 June, 2024 is a legal case where the appellant Azhar @ Md. Azhar, convicted under Sections 448, 354A, 326A, 307, and 302 of the IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act, received a life sentence after throwing acid on a 15-year-old girl, causing serious injuries leading to her death. The court also dealt with the appeals of other appellants who were acquitted of all charges. The victim had reported harassment before the incident, and evidence corroborating her account was provided by multiple witnesses including her parents and sisters. The judgment highlighted the admissibility of the victim's statement made in the ICU, acknowledging it as a dying declaration under Indian law. Apart from addressing the convictions, the court analyzed legal precedents regarding dying declarations and sentencing, ultimately converting Azhar's life sentence into one that allows for remissions.

[case 823]
Khalil Mehboob Shaikh vs The State Of Maharashtra on 30 January, 2019. The appellant herein is convicted for offence punishable under Section 323 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for one year and to pay a fine of Rs. 1000/- in default to suffer rigorous imprisonment for one month. The appellant is also convicted for the offence punishable under Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/- in default to suffer rigorous imprisonment for one year. The appellant is also convicted for an offence punishable under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 5000/- in default to suffer rigorous imprisonment for one year. The appellant is also directed to pay Rs. 10, 000/- as compensation to the victim of the offence.

[case 824]
This criminal revision has been filed challenging the order dated 11. 04. 2023 passed by XIIth Additional Sessions Judge, Rewa in Criminal Appeal No. 46/2023, whereby the finding given by the Principal Judge Juvenile Justice Board, Rewa in Criminal Case No. 361/2022 regarding trial of the applicant as a major person was upheld. Facts relevant for decision of this case are that applicant was alleged to have committed the murder of one Harishankar, who was his close relative. The age of applicant on the date of incident was 17 years. The matter came up before the juvenile Justice Board and an enquiry was held regarding the preliminary assessment as envisaged under Section 15 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015 (hereinafter to be referred as 'Act'). In the said enquiry, the Juvenile Justice Board considered the opinion of psychologist and the Social Investigation Report conveniently referred hereinafter as 'SIR'.

[case 825]
During investigation, the victim was produced on 05. 08. 2013, by the Investigating Officer (P. W. 4) before Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Court No. 25, Barabanki, for recording her statement under Section 164 of the Code, where she stated that about 10 days ago, in the morning the appellant came to her house, at that time her mother and elder sister had gone to sow the paddy in field whereas she and her brother was at the house. She further stated that appellant came to her and said that he would give cashew biscuit. She further stated that she did not want to go but the appellant dragged her forcibly at his rice mill (palesar) and gave biscuit. Thereafter, he carried her inside the rice mill in a room and put cloth in her mouth and laid her down. She further stated that he removed her undergarment (panty) and inserted his finger into the vagina (female genital organ) and thereafter also inserted his penis (male genital organ).

[case 826]
Sri Ananda Poojari vs State By Chamarajpet Police on 12 July, 2018 In the High Court of Karnataka dated this the 12th day of July, 2018 before the Hon'ble Mr. Justice K. Somashekar. CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 1179 OF 2016 between Sri. Ananda Poojari, aged about 40 years, residing at Bangalore, and State by Chamarajpet Police, represented by the State Public Prosecutor. This Crl. A. is filed under Section 374(2) of Cr. P. C praying to set aside the judgment/order of conviction and sentence dated: 31. 05. 2016. The appellant is convicted for the offence punishable under Section 9(L)(M)r/w Sec. 10 of POCSO Act, 2012 and sentenced to 5 years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine. On 24. 12. 2014, the accused entered the house of the victim, a minor girl, attempting to kiss her and committing sexual abuse. Following a complaint by the victim's father, a trial was held where the accused was ultimately found guilty, which he has appealed against in this case.

[case 827]
All India Democratic Women's Association vs The State Of Tamil Nadu on 4 July, 2014. Before the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, a Writ Petition was filed by the All India Democratic Women's Association, asking for a Writ of Mandamus directing the State to issue guidelines for trial procedures in child sexual abuse cases under the POCSO Act. The Court, after hearing the arguments, emphasized the necessity of sensitive treatment towards child victims, beyond the already established guidelines, suggesting that a courtroom must be a supportive environment for vulnerable witnesses. It was pointed out that the previous rulings recognized the need to protect minors throughout the judicial process, ensuring that their rights are upheld alongside those of the accused. The Court ordered the trial to be conducted in camera and allowed breaks for the child while ensuring that the identity of the child was protected throughout the process.

[case 828]
Shadaan Ansari vs State Of U. P. & 2 Others on 14 January, 2020. This revision has been filed for quashing of the order dated 21. 09. 2019 passed by Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge (POCSO Act), Faizabad in Special Session Trial No. 78 of 2018, arising out of F. I. R. No. 76 of 2018, under Sections 376, 506, 377 I. P. C. and Section 3/4 POCSO Act. The revisionist was not in a position to engage a lawyer, resulting in Amicus Curiae being assigned at the states expense. However, the Amicus Curiae did not effectively cross-examine the prosecution witnesses. The petitioner's argument cites the violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India regarding the right to fair trial due to inadequate legal aid. The High Court concluded that the legal aid provided was not effective as it failed to ensure a fair trial, leading to the quashing of the previous order and allowing the revisionist the opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses.

[case 829]
Durgawati @ Priya vs Cbi on 23 January, 2023. The present application under Section 439 Cr. P. C. has been filed seeking bail in S. T. No. 251 of 2021, arising out of RC No. 10(S)/2020/ CBI/SC-III/ND, under Sections 120-B read with 377 IPC and Sections 6 read with 5(c)(i)(m) and (n) and Sections 14, 15, 17 of POCSO Act and Section 67-B of Information Technology Act. Accused-applicant is the wife of the main accused, Rambhawan, who was alleged to be involved in sexually abusing children/minors and making pornographic videos. Several items were recovered from them including videos, photographs related to child sexual abuse, and money earned from it. Children have recorded their statements alleging that they were sexually exploited. The Court rejected the bail application considering the statements of victims and involvement of the accused-applicant. However, it stated that she could revive her bail application once victims are examined.

[case 830]
The passage further highlights that the counsel also brought to notice of this Court the very proviso of Section 357A and sub-clause (3) of Cr. P. C and the proviso is very clear that if the trial Court, at the conclusion of the trial, is satisfied, that the compensation awarded under Section 357 of Cr. P. C is not adequate for such rehabilitation, or where the cases end in acquittal or discharge and the victim has to be rehabilitated, it may make recommendation for compensation. In Crl. R. P. No. 810/2022, the learned counsel brought to notice of this Court paragraph 49 of the order of the Trial Court wherein the Trial Court has made an observation that with regard to awarding compensation is concerned, though the prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of the accused by producing consisting and corroborative evidence, but as per the medical evidence, it appears that she was sexually assaulted and she has suffered mental agony.

[case 831]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the proceedings in Spl. S. C. No. 126 of 2024 on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for POCSO Act, Madurai. The case of the prosecution is that the petitioner had married the third respondent/victim girl and had a physical relationship with her. The victim had given birth on 20. 09. 2022. A complaint was lodged by the Development Officer. Both parties later presented a joint Memo of Compromise indicating that they had settled their dispute amicably, and the victim intends to withdraw her complaint. The Court stated that while it has the power to quash criminal proceedings under certain conditions, it should do so cautiously. The petitioner is charged under Sections related to Child Marriage Act and POCSO Act. In light of the settlement, the Court determined that the continuation of the criminal proceedings would cause oppression, thus quashing the proceedings.

[case 832]
Leonard Xavier Valdaris & Ors vs Office-In-Charge & Ors on 19 December, 2019
The Petitioner No. 1 herein happens to be an unfortunate father of one Agnello @ Richie, who died in the custody of Wadala Police Station and Petitioner Nos. 2 and 3 are the accused in C. R. No. 49 of 2014 registered at Wadala Police Station on 11/4/2014. The petitioners have prayed to this Court mainly to take stringent action against delinquent police officers, who are responsible for the custodial death of son of Petitioner No. 1 and the custodial sexual abuse and torture of petitioner Nos. 2 and 3. The learned Counsel for the petitioner reiterates that the trial court be directed to frame additional charge under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code in view of the fact that the petitioner's son has died while in police custody and as on today, there is ample material to indicate that the accused have not offered any justifiable reasons for the same.

[case 833]
Madras High Court - Praveena vs The Commissioner Of Police on 19 February, 2024. The petitioner/Praveena who is the mother of 3 year old child by name Mathumitha has filed this Habeas Corpus Petition stating that through the 3rd respondent she gave birth to the said Mathumitha in the month of October 2020. After handing over the child to the 4th respondent to take care as per the instructions of the 3rd respondent, the petitioner left India and went to Dubai. Thereafter, she was prevented from seeing the child on the instructions of the 3rd respondent. It was also alleged that in the birth certificate, the 4th respondent has given the name of the petitioner's erstwhile husband Gunaseelan as the father of Mathumitha though the biological father of Mathumitha is the 3rd respondent. Criminal complaint been lodged and registered in CSR. No. 416 of 2022 and after representation to some of the higher authorities, present HCP is filed.

[case 834]
On 08. 04. 2015, X (P. W. 4) was returning from school and was waiting in the Udayarpalayam Bus Stop to take a bus to Chozhankurichi as Susila (P. W. 1) had told her to come to Selvi's (P. W. 6's) house. While she was waiting in the bus stop, the appellant came by his TVS-50 (M. O. 2) and offered lift to her. So, she got on to his TVS-50 (M. O. 2). En route, the appellant diverted the motorcycle into a nearby cashew grove, undressed her and sexually abused her. She was seen naked by a group of farm workers hailing from Chozhankurichi who were working in a nearby farm. They enquired her and took her to Chozhankurichi and left her with Susila (P. W. 1) and Selvi (P. W. 6). On a complaint (Ex. P. 1) lodged by Susila (P. W. 1), Kavitha (P. W. 9), Inspector of Police, registered a case in Cr. No. 5 of 2015 under Sections 376(2)(f) IPC and Section 5(m) read with Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (the POCSO Act for short).

[case 835]
Smt. Priyanka Rajawat vs Rahul Singh Rajawat @ Vijay Singh on 21 January, 2025. Criminal Revision No. 4107 of 2019. In the High Court of Madhya Pradesh. This case deals with the issue of maintenance under Section 125 of the Cr. P. C. filed by Smt. Priyanka Rajawat against her husband, Rahul Singh Rajawat. The family court initially rejected her application for maintenance claiming that she was living separately without a justifiable reason, while granting maintenance to their child, Virat Rajawat. The applicant alleged that she faced physical and mental harassment and was turned out of her matrimonial home. The husband contested these allegations and claimed she voluntarily left. The court eventually ruled in favor of Smt. Priyanka, granting her maintenance while affirming the maintenance granted to their child, citing legal principles regarding domestic violence and entitlement to maintenance regardless of cohabitation status.

[case 836]
W. P. No. 25034 of 2024 and W. M. P. No. 27373 of 2024 - A. P. Suryaprakasam vs State Of Tamil Nadu on 20 November, 2024. In the Madras High Court, a writ petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution seeks a writ of mandamus to transfer the investigation pertaining to the alleged sexual abuses of school children in the bogus NCC camp from the State police to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). This move aims to infuse confidence in parents regarding the safety of their children. The Tamil Nadu Government has announced measures to ensure student safety, including establishing an Advisory Committee, complaint boxes in schools, and helpline numbers printed on textbooks. Training for school staff on actions against misbehaving teachers is also mandated. Compensation for victims has been set up through the Mahila Court, and improvements and inspections of schools are to be conducted regularly to prevent further incidents.

[case 837]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the proceedings in Spl. S. C. No. 193 of 2023 on the file of the learned Special Court for the Exclusive Trial of POCSO Act Cases, Dindigul. The case has been registered for offences under Sections 366 of IPC and Sections 366(A), 363 of IPC and Sections 9, 5(l), 5(j)(ii) and 6 of POCSO Act. It is settled law that the High Court has inherent power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to quash the criminal proceedings even for the offences which are not compoundable under Section 320 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the parties have settled their dispute between themselves. However, while quashing the criminal proceedings, based on the settlement arrived at between the parties, the High Court should act with caution and the power should be exercised sparingly only in order to secure the ends of justice and also to prevent abuse of process of any Court.

[case 838]
The case State Of Karnataka vs Sri Brahmadeva presented in the Karnataka High Court involved serious allegations under the POCSO Act against a Physical Training Teacher accused of sexual abuse of a minor girl. The decision of acquittal has raised questions about the evidentiary standards in sexual abuse cases. The trial court highlighted a significant delay in reporting the incident which, combined with hostile witness testimonies, contributed to the defendant's acquittal. The case illustrates the legal principle that the prosecution bears the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, particularly in cases of alleged child abuse where consistency and corroborative evidence are crucial. It also sparks a dialogue on the importance of supportive legal frameworks that can protect the rights of the child and ensure that allegations of this nature are not only taken seriously but investigated thoroughly and expediently.

[case 839]
In a significant ruling, a political figure is accused of committing acts against a minor, with allegations forming the basis for multiple charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the Indian Penal Code. The petitioner challenges the legitimacy of the complaint arguing that it is either politically motivated or frivolous. However, the prosecution has a responsibility to substantiate its claims, supported by audio recordings that corroborate the claims made by the complainant. The magistrate's role necessitates a thorough review of evidence to determine whether sufficient grounds exist to proceed with the charges. The importance of this examination is underscored by the legal principles set out in prior judgments that necessitate a careful application of judicial scrutiny at every stage of the process, highlighting the protective layer the law seeks to afford the vulnerable individuals involved.

[case 840]
The passage discusses provisions concerning the Preconception and Prenatal Diagnostic Techniques Act, highlighting the issues faced by medical practitioners due to the strict punitive measures defined within. The Association argues that Section 23(2) allows the indefinite suspension of a medical practitioner's registration based solely on allegations raised during preliminary investigations, a practice perceived as violating Article 21, thus denying the presumption of innocence until proven guiltya principle enshrined in the Constitution. This situation has led to the assertion that clerical errors should not trigger such severe legal consequences which prevent physicians from practicing and providing essential health care, especially to women who may need their services. Legal avenues for challenging these suspensions are also noted, alongside the constant need for safeguarding the rights of the medical practitioners.

[case 841]
In the case of Sayyed Usman S/O Sayyedmohiddin vs The State Of Karnataka on 15 January, 2025, the Karnataka High Court addressed serious allegations against the petitioners related to child marriage offenses. Registered by the Betageri Police, the FIR stemmed from a complaint by the President of the Child Welfare Committee, emphasizing the illegal marriage of a minor boy conducted by the petitioners, who held significant roles in their community. The court meticulously reviewed the implications of Sections 10 and 11 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act to assess their necessary elements, finding a lack of evidence that the petitioners were directly responsible for solemnizing the minor's marriage. Thus, proceedings against them were quashed, illustrating a critical interpretation of legal defenses available when individuals are accused of participating in child marriages without sufficient proof of their involvement.

[case 842]
The petitioner, who is the mother of a minor child, challenges the order of the Family Court, Thrissur in Execution Application No. 130 of 2020. The Family Court directed the decree holder-father to have custody of the child. The petitioner impugns the order on the ground that the father has perpetrated a sexual offence on the minor child. The Family Court examined and interacted with the child who described the incidents of abuse. The judge concluded that the allegations were false based on an investigation report. The Family Courts need to evaluate allegations of abuse cautiously, ensuring that merely registering a complaint does not automatically grant custody rights in favor of the other parent. This case illustrates the complexities involved in custody disputes, especially when allegations of abuse arise and highlights the necessity for proper judicial scrutiny to protect the rights and welfare of the child involved.

[case 843]
The present petition seeks to quash and set aside the F. I. R. , dated 25/10/2017 filed by the Shanti Nagar Police Station, Nagpur in Criminal Case No. 287/2017; the charge-sheet dated 26/11/2017 and supplementary charge-sheet dated 26/10/2019 as well as the report of the Child Welfare Committee dated 24/10/2017 on the complaint of the respondent no. 3. The allegations of sexual abuse were to the effect that when the minor child Veer, was staying with his mother, he was sleeping between the petitioner and his mother, at which time, the petitioner, used to insert her hands into the pant of the child and fondle and play with his penis and also touch his anus and so also used to take the hand of the child and touch her vagina and anus. This is contained in para 5 of the compliant dated 21/9/2017. The Child Welfare Committee, referred the matter to the Protection Officer and asked her to meet that child and record his statement.

[case 844]
Poonam @ Poonam Kumari Sinha vs The State Of Bihar on 29 August, 2022. The prosecution case is based on a written complaint with accusations that a five-year-old female child was adopted by a couple from the United States. After the adoption, the adoptive parents found some abnormality in the child. Upon examination, it was discovered that the child had been sexually harassed. The case was initiated after the American Embassy sent a letter to authorities, alleging sexual abuse. The victim disclosed that two persons had abused her with assistance from certain ladies. The accused individuals include a Child Protection Officer and others associated with the adoption agency. The Court considered the bail applications of these petitioners, heard arguments from both sides, and decided not to grant bail at that time due to the serious nature of the allegations and the evidence that suggested involvement in the sexual assault.

[case 845]
The aforecaptioned Bail Application arises out of Crime No. 183/2019 of Muttom Police Station. The petitioner herein has been arrayed as A-1 in the instant Crime No. 183/2019 of Muttom Police Station, for offences punishable under Secs. 354, 506(l) r/w 34 of the IPC and Secs. 9(l), 9(m), 9(n) r/w 10 of the POCSO Act, 2012. The prosecution case in short is that accused No. 2 is the mother of the minor victim girl, aged 10 years, and that accused No. 2 is living separately from her husband and that accused No. 1 is her present paramour/lover and that accused No. 3 is a close relative of the accused No. 2's adopted mother. Allegations include that accused Nos. 1 & 2 had taken the minor girl to a lodge, where the victim was sexually abused by accused No. 1. The court has ordered the release of the petitioner on bail under stringent conditions, considering the serious nature of the accusations and the need to protect the minor victim.

[case 846]
Within the high court's jurisdiction, considerations for the ruling against Raj Kishore entailed a multifactorial analysis of age determination, prosecutrix statements, and the evidentiary standards necessary for a conviction under the POCSO Act. The prosecution's reliance on school admission forms as proof of the prosecutrix's age failed to suffice in the court's assessment, given the observed discrepancies developed during testimony evaluations. Furthermore, the prosecutrix's retraction of her initial statements regarding the nature of her relationship with the appellant caused substantial doubts concerning the validity of claims made against him. The imperative for concrete evidence surrounding age thresholds illustrated the necessity for precision in legal proceedings involving minors, thereby heightening the repercussions for erroneous assumptions in such sensitive cases.

[case 847]
This Criminal Miscellaneous Petition has been filed to suspend the sentence imposed on the petitioner/A2 by the learned Special Judge under the POCSO Act, 2012. The case of the prosecution states that the victim girls are minor children belonging to ST Community and that they were subjected to unlawful labor and cruelty. The petitioner/A2, who is the wife of A1, was implicated for her role in the abuse and exploitation of the victims. The special court found sufficient evidence to convict the accused under various sections of child protection laws including the POCSO Act. The trial court's findings indicated the serious nature of the crimes committed, resulting in significant sentences. Now, the petitioner seeks to appeal the conviction and have her sentence suspended pending the outcome. The court emphasizes the need for accountability for the convicted regarding abuses and cruelties inflicted upon the minor victims.

[case 848]
Chhote Lal (Minor) vs State Of U. P. And Another on 24 March, 2021. This is a Revision under Section 102 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (for short, ''the Act'). The facts giving rise to the failed bail plea include an incident where the informant's son, Satyam, was teased by a neighbor, Chhote Lal. After the informant's family confronted the accused, a violent altercation ensued, leading to injuries, and ultimately the death of the informant's father-in-law. The Juvenile Justice Board declared Chhote Lal as a minor, and his bail application was denied based on the nature of the offense and concerns regarding the environment of the child. The court eventually allowed the bail after considering similar circumstances of the adult co-accused. The conditions for bail included supervision by the District Probation Officer and an undertaking from Chhote Lal's mother regarding his conduct.

[case 849]
Disclosing The Act Of Sexual Assault. .. vs. Sujeet Kumar, on 25 May, 2017
In the matter of: State vs. Kumod Mishra, the accused is facing trial for the commission of offences punishable under sections 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. This was based on allegations that he raped and assaulted a minor girl aged 14 years, referred to as the victim. The victim, originally from Jharkhand, was brought to Delhi under the pretext of work and was assaulted by the accused.
The investigation revealed that she was threatened and assaulted multiple times. After reporting the incident, she was medically examined and subsequently the complainant was taken seriously, leading to the arrest of the accused. Medical evidence supported the victims claims, and the case illustrates the legal frameworks in place to deal with such crimes against minors.

[case 850]
The petitioner who is a social worker, working with child victims of sexual abuse and their families, across Mumbai and who is also performing the role as a support person in child sexual abuse cases in cases before the Child Welfare Committee, is before the Court pro bono publico, raising issues in regard to the rights of the children to participate in the trial of offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (for short 'the POCSO Act'). The petitioner raises a concern in regard to the implementation and compliance of Section 40 of the POCSO Act read with Rule 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Rule, 2012 (for short ''the POCSO Rules'). The petitioner's case is: That he has come across several cases under the POCSO Act, in which the Courts and the police have overlooked or failed to give effect to the mandate of Section 40 of the POCSO Act read with Rule 4 of the POCSO Rules.

[case 851]
Chauhan Chandrasinh @ Chandubhai @. .. vs State Of Gujarat on 3 May, 2023. In the HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD R/CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION NO. 8059 of 2023. The applicant no. 1 is the original accused and applicant no. 2 is the victim of the offence and by way of this application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the applicants have jointly prayed for quashing and setting aside FIR being C. R. No. I-55 OF 2019 registered with Limkheda Police Station for the offence punishable under Sections 363, 366, 376(N) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3, 4, 8 of POCSO Act. Not only that, out of the wedlock, the applicants were blessed with a baby child on 24. 02. 2022. It appears that further continuation of criminal proceedings in relation to the impugned FIR against the applicant no. 1 would be unnecessary harassment. Hence, the impugned FIR and other consequential proceedings are quashed and set aside.

[case 852]
Ganesan vs State on 21 April, 2022. This Criminal Appeal has been filed to set aside the impugned order passed in Spl. S. C. No. 18 of 2017, dated 21. 04. 2022, on the file of the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under POCSO Act, 2012, Srivilliputhur, Virudhunagar District and acquit the appellant in connection with Crime No. 1 of 2017, on the file of the respondent police. The appellant, who is the sole accused in Spl. S. C. No. 18 of 2017. .. The learned trial Judge convicted the appellant for the offence under Section 450 of IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act 2012 and sentenced him to undergo 7 years imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 1000/- and in default of fine, to undergo 6 months of imprisonment. According to the prosecution, the appellant is aged about 24 years. .. The learned trial Judge, after considering the medical evidence, acquitted the appellant under section 5(l) of the POCSO Act. ..

[case 853]
Juvenile -X vs State Of U. P. And Another on 2 March, 2023. The judgment elaborates on the legal framework surrounding juvenile bail under the Juvenile Justice Act, specifically Section 12, which traditionally presumes bail should be granted unless there are strong reasons against it. The court emphasized that if a juvenile is to be denied bail, it must be based on the risk assessment regarding potential harm or criminal association if released. The judgment underlines the importance of the social investigation report prepared by the Probation Officer to inform the court decisions about the bail conditions. In this case, the juvenile was initially denied bail due to concerns about his potential exposure to criminal influences, despite a lack of prior criminal history or substantiated adverse findings against him. Ultimately, the court allowed for bail under specific conditions aimed at the juveniles rehabilitation.

[case 854]
Kumar @ Kumaresan vs State on 21 August, 2017 The victim boy is the son the defacto complainant. On 17. 11. 2016, the victim boy went to his grandmothers house and stayed there. Next day morning at about 9. 00 a. m. , he went to school by a mini bus. After the school was over, he did not reach back to his parents house. On the way to his home he got down at Erode bus stand and was urinating behind the bus. The accused who came there in a motorcycle took the victim boy by telling that he would drop him at his house. As the accused took a different road, the victim boy questioned him. The accused threatened the victim boy and took him to a house in a place called Otta methai. During night times, the accused confined the victim inside a room and compelled him to have oral sex with him. He also committed anus- penile penetrative sexual offence with the boy. Whenever the boy cried out of fear, he was beaten by the accused.

[case 855]
The learned counsel would further submit that the registration of the case and the filing of the final report and further proceedings is nothing but an abuse of process of law. The case of the defacto complainant is that he had given a complaint as if his daughter was a minor on 11. 08. 2018, whereas the fact remains that the victim was born on 09. 07. 2000 and on the date of occurrence, the victim had completed 18years and she was free to choose her own will, however, the second respondent/defacto complainant being a Government Servant abused his position and given a false complaint as if his daughter was less than 18years. Based on the false complaint, a case was originally registered in Cr. No. 299 of 2018 under the caption "girl missing" coming to know of the case, the petitioner and the victim were surrendered before the respondent police. However, the petitioner was arrested and he was remanded to judicial custody.

[case 856]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to call for the records and quash the charge sheet filed in Spl. S. C. No. 26 of 2020, on the file of the Special Judge, (Under POCSO Act, 2012), Pudhucherry. The case of the prosecution is that the defacto complainant had love affair with the first accused and thereafter, she became pregnant. After coming to know about the same, both parents warned them, but later, they agreed for their marriage. The defacto complainant went for checkup on 11. 12. 2019 and the doctor referred her to consult the Rajeev Gandhi Women's Hospital, Puducherry as she had low blood level and anemia. On 12. 12. 2019, after checkup, the defacto complainant got admitted in the hospital. The hospital authorities informed the respondent police that the defacto complainant who is under 18 years was admitted in the hospital for treatment and she was four months pregnant and her date of birth was 12. 01. 2002.

[case 857]
This civil revision petition arises against the order of the learned Judicial Magistrate, Additional Mahila Court of Krishnagiri in Crl. M. P. No. 3620 of 2024 in D. V. C. No. 31/2023 dated 02. 07. 2024. The civil revision petitioner is the husband and he is the respondent in the domestic violence case. He solemnized his wedding with the respondent herein. From the wedlock, two children were born. On account of disputes and differences, the parties separated. The husband questioned the paternity of the 2nd child born to the wife. The wife approached the Protection Officer by way of complaint. The husband, in his counter, yet again reiterated the plea regarding the paternity of the child. Following a series of events concerning domestic violence, the wife sought a DNA test to substantiate her claim regarding the child's parentage. Consequently, the Court allowed the DNA test in light of the circumstances surrounding the case.

[case 858]
This petition has been filed to call for the records pertaining to the proceedings in Crime No. 17 of 2022 on the file of the respondent police and quash the same. The petitioner's son has filed HMOP No. 60 of 2022 on the file of the Additional Sub Court, Dharmapuri for divorce on the ground of desertion and cruelty. In order to take revenge against the petitioner and his son on 16. 07. 2022, the defacto complainant gave the present complaint against the petitioner/A2 with false allegations under the POCSO Act. The defacto complainant who is the mother of the victim girl has stated that her daughter, who is aged about 15 years, was sexually abused by her father-in-law and by her husband. On coming to know that her daughter was abused sexually, a complaint has been lodged. This Court finds that the FIR discloses prima facie commission of cognizable offence and as such, this Court cannot interfere with the investigation.

[case 859]
The prosecution examined one Rani, the grand-mother of the victim child and the de-facto complainant in this case, as P. W. 1. She deposed that since the child did not return home, she went in search of the child and upon hearing of wailing of the child, she found the child in the neighbour's field and when she ran and enquired her grandson, he told her that the appellant/accused had made him to lie down and by pressing his mouth made his mouth open and inserted his penis inside his mouth. She also saw that her grandson was bleeding in the ears and nose and there was an injury on the cheek because of pinching by the appellant/accused. She took her grandson to a private Doctor. She also went to the house of the appellant/accused and when she confronted his mother, the appellant/accused came and threatened her. Thereafter, she had lodged a complaint. The prosecution examined one Kumaravel, who was the mahazar witness.

[case 860]
In the case Ms. XYZ vs The State Of Maharashtra, the petitioner is a 15-year-old victim of child abuse, currently in her 26th week of pregnancy. The High Court ordered a Medical Board to evaluate her situation concerning a request for medical termination of pregnancy. After a thorough investigation, the Medical Board concluded that the petitioner, as a minor and victim of sexual abuse under the POCSO Act, was fit for a possible medical termination of pregnancy based on the circumstances. However, upon further consideration and dialogue with her and her mother, it was noted that they expressed a desire to continue with the pregnancy and later possibly give the child up for adoption or rehabilitation. In light of these wishes, the court allowed the petitioner the autonomy to decide about the medical termination or continuation of the pregnancy, also noting the provisions for shelter and medical care until delivery.

[case 861]
In the case of Prakash @ Parashivamurthy vs The State Of Karnataka, the accused, Prakash, is charged under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act). The case involves a 16-year-old girl (CW2), who was allegedly subjected to sexual abuse and kidnapping by Prakash. Despite arguing that the victim was a consenting party, the court acknowledges that the consent of a minor is not recognized in law. The court emphasizes that the POCSO Act is a special enactment aimed at protecting children from abuse and criminalizes sexual activities involving minors, regardless of consent. This case raises significant issues regarding the interpretation of consent in relation to minors and the importance of safeguarding children under the law. The petition for bail has been denied based on the likelihood of tampering with the victim and the gravity of the offenses.

[case 862]
Jagdish Malshibhai Pingalsur vs State Of Gujarat on 30 November, 2021. IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD R/CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION NO. 6912 of 2021 With CRIMINAL MISC. APPLICATION (FIXING DATE OF EARLY HEARING) NO. 1 of 2021. The applicant has prayed for quashing and setting aside FIR registered for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 366, 376 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Sections 6, 8 and 12 of the POCSO Act. During the pendency of the criminal proceedings, the parties have amicably settled their issue by way of mutual settlement. The complainant has stated in an affidavit that the dispute is resolved and she has no objections if the present proceedings are quashed. The daughter of the complainant and applicant got married and they have a child together. Considering the facts and decisions from previous cases, the application is allowed and the FIR is quashed to prevent unnecessary harassment.

[case 863]
Selvaraj vs The State By on 28 July, 2021. This criminal appeal is directed against the judgment and order of conviction and sentence dated 28. 03. 2018 passed by the Sessions Judge, Mahalir Neethimandram (Fast Track Mahila Court), Tiruppur in Spl. S. C. No. 15 of 2016. The prosecution case is as under: Since this is a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short the POCSO Act), for the sake of anonymity, we are referring to the victim as X. Her date of birth is 04. 12. 1997 (vide Ex. P1). .. The appellant started sexually abusing her off and on, on the same threat. As days passed, she started feeling uneasy and on 05. 03. 2013, she complained to her aunt-Shanti (P. W. 5), that she was frequently suffering from dizziness and vomiting. Therefore, Shanti (P. W. 5) took her to the KMCH Hospital, Erode, where, on examination by the doctors, it was discovered that she was five months pregnant. ..

[case 864]
K. Mususamy (Sic K. Munusamy) vs State Of Tamil Nadu on 11 February, 2021. .. The Child Welfare Committee, Tiruvallur, has passed an order dated 08. 10. 2020, directing that Nivedha should be lodged in the fourth respondent Organization. Alleging illegal custody of Nivedha, this habeas corpus petition has been filed by the petitioner, father of Nivedha. In our considered opinion, Nivedha cannot be said to be in the illegal custody of the fourth respondent Organization, inasmuch as, she has been lodged in the home of the fourth respondent Organization, by the order passed by the Child Welfare Committee. Therefore, it is open to the petitioner to approach the Child Welfare Committee, Tiruvallur, for custody of his daughter Nivedha. If any adverse orders are passed, appeal is maintainable before the Special Court for POCSO Act Cases, where, the case is pending. Recording the same, this habeas corpus petition is closed.

[case 865]
In the case State (Nct Of Delhi) vs Vishal on 29 March, 2019, the learned Trial Court acquitted the accused, Vishal, who was charged under Section 12 of the POCSO Act and Section 504 read with Section 506 of the IPC. The brief facts reveal that on 12. 07. 2013, the victims reported to the police that Vishal had threatened them with a blade and acid if they did not marry him. The report included testimonies from the victims who were both minors at the time. The court noted various contradictions in the testimonies and found the prosecution's case weak, leading to the acquittal of the accused. The State, represented by Mr. G. M. Farooqui, sought to appeal the acquittal citing that the trial court wrongly dismissed the case due to minor contradictions and previous enmity between families. The court ultimately dismissed the State's appeal, citing the need for compelling evidence to overturn the trial court's decision.

[case 866]
The ruling emphasized the legal necessity of determining the prosecutrixs exact age as a fundamental aspect of ascertaining whether the provisions of the POCSO Act could be enforced. The court analyzed the methods that should be utilized to accurately establish age when disputes arise, settling on a legal framework that calls for corroboration, documentation, and substantial evidence specifically reflecting the prosecutrix being a minor. The court's dismissal of the appellant's conviction was heavily influenced by the prosecutrix's final statement expressing her reluctance to pursue charges against him, which, along with the ambiguous evidence of her age raised fundamental questions about the integrity of the charges. Thus, this decision signifies how the legal system attempts to balance the protection of minors while recognizing personal agency in relational contexts.

[case 867]
Rajesh Appukuttan vs State Of Kerala on 16 September, 2020. Bail Appl. .No. 5579 OF 2020 assigned to Crime No. 1390/2020. The petitioner, Rajesh Appukuttan, is accused of sexually abusing a 4-year-old child, his own daughter, while the child's mother is abroad. The court hears both sides before allowing bail under Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code with stringent conditions due to the nature of the allegations. The court emphasizes the temporary nature of the bail and the importance of the investigation, noting that the child's statement does not incriminate the father. However, conditions such as regular reporting to the investigating officer and non-eviction from India are imposed to ensure compliance during the ongoing judicial process. The bail order simultaneously recognizes the need for the accused's rights while upholding child protection laws as defined in the POCSO Act and the Juvenile Justice Act.

[case 868]
The case involves Rohith Edwin D'Souza, who filed a Criminal Petition to quash proceedings under Section 376 of IPC and Sections 5(L) and 6 of the POCSO Act. The petitioner and the complainant, Flovina Mischel Rebello, appeared in court and stated they had married and had amicably settled their dispute, and respondent No. 2 is now pregnant. The court highlighted the principles established in previous rulings regarding the inherent power it holds under Section 482 to quash proceedings even for non-compoundable offences, based on settlement between parties. The court aimed to prevent abuse of the judicial process and secure the ends of justice, especially when the proceedings could have a detrimental impact on an established family unit. Ultimately, with both parties in agreement and having resolved their issues, the High Court granted the petition and quashed the criminal proceedings against Rohith Edwin D'Souza.

[case 869]
In the High Court of Gujarat, a case involved Surjibhai Badaji Kalasva, who filed a writ application seeking to terminate the pregnancy of his 13-year-old daughter, a victim of rape. The court had to review provisions from the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, and evaluate the medical opinion on the fetus's age, which indicated it was over 30 weeks. The doctors advised against termination due to high risks for both mother and child, emphasizing the need to protect life and avoid unnecessary complications. The court stressed the importance of respecting both the victims mental anguish from the assault and the unborn child's rights. Ultimately, the court ruled against termination but provided directions for medical care and support for the victim. It outlined proper procedures for handling such sensitive cases and emphasized the urgency of addressing the victim's psychological and physical well-being.

[case 870]
The present petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been filed by the petitioners, with a request to quash FIR No. 87, registered under Sections 363 and 376 of Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 with Police Station Reckong Peo, District Kinnaur H. P. , along with the consequential proceedings thereto. The petitioner No. 1 was accused of taking the child victim (petitioner No. 2) under the pretext of marriage. The State contests this based on the gravity of the alleged crimes, emphasizing that such offences against minors not only harm the victims but also pose a significant threat to societal morals. The State has presented evidence to argue against the validity of any arranged compromise post the alleged criminal act. The mentality surrounding the nature of consent in relationships involving minors remains a crucial legal framework.

[case 871]
Criminal appeals have emerged from the Gujarat High Court concerning the conviction of Ashokbhai for multiple sexual offenses against a minor under the Indian Penal Code and the POCSO Act. On 22nd March 2014, the police filed an FIR alleging that the defendant had eloped with a girl aged 15 years and 11 months, subsequently sexually assaulting her. After a detailed legal proceeding, the lower court convicted Ashokbhai under various sections and sentenced him to imprisonment; however, the prosecution appealed against the inadequate sentencing for the rape charge under Section 376 of the IPC. The case elaborates on child protection laws, statutory rape definitions, and the judicial interpretation of consent in cases involving minors, emphasizing the critical legal protections afforded to children under the POCSO Act, which was established to ensure the safety and legal rights of minors against sexual offenses.

[case 872]
Sri X vs The State Of West Bengal And Others on 17 August, 2023
The petitioner, the father of an 11-year-old girl who is a victim of gang rape and now pregnant, requests medical termination of the pregnancy, which is beyond the 24-week threshold typically allowed under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act. The court recognizes the unique and dire circumstances surrounding the case, including the victim's tender age and the severe potential impact of childbirth on her physical and mental health. The arguments presented by the defense reflect on the provisions of the law that accommodate exceptional cases of medical termination, especially for minors subjected to sexual offenses. The provision in the law considers the mental trauma associated with pregnancies resulting from rape as a significant justification for medical intervention, thus raising questions about victim rights and judicial interpretation.

[case 873]
Yallappa vs The State And Anr on 4 September, 2020. This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure praying to allow the petition thereby enlarge the petitioner on bail in Spl. Case (POCSO) No. 11/2020 pending on the file of II Addl. District and Sessions/Special Judge at Vijayapur in Crime No. 70/2020 registered by the Indi Rural Police Station, for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 376(2)(n), 504 of IPC and Sections 4, 6, and 12 of POCSO Act, 2012 and Section 3(1)(r)(s) of SC/ST (PA) New Act, 2015. This petition coming on for orders this day, the Court made the following: THIS petition is filed by the petitioner/accused under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure, seeking to enlarge him on bail. It is the prosecution case as per the charge sheet materials that the complainant is the mother of the victim and the victim is below the age of 18 years and is a child. ..

[case 874]
By the present Leave Petition filed under Section 378 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (hereinafter referred to as 'Cr. P. C. ') the State seeks leave to appeal against the judgment dated 21. 08. 2018 passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge-01, Special Court (POCSO) North West District, Rohini Court, New Delhi, whereby the respondent (accused before the Trial Court) was acquitted of the charges punishable under Sections 363/376/506/511 of the Indian Penal Code (hereinafter referred to as 'IPC') and Sections 8/10/12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as 'POCSO'). The brief facts of the case, as mentioned by the learned Trial Court are reproduced as under: "Brief facts of the prosecution case are that DD No. 28A dated 25. 07. 2013 was recorded on a PCR call at about 8. 00 p. m. regarding attempt of rape with 4 years old daughter of the caller by the neighbour.

[case 875]
The Criiminal Appeal is preferred by the sole accused being aggrieved by the order of conviction dated 11/08/2016 in Spl. S. C 28/2015 on the file District Magalir Sessions Court, Cuddalore. The particulars of the offences and the terms of sentence imposed by the trial court are as under: - Convicted for the offence under Sections by the trial Court Section 366-A IPC Sentenced him to undergo 7 years RI and to pay a fine of Rs. 1000/-, in default, to undergo 1 year RI Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 Sentenced him to undergo 1 year RI Section 5(1) r/w Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, (POCSO Act), 2012 Sentenced to undergo him to 10 years RI and to pay a fine of Rs. 1000/- in default to undergo 1 year RI. The period of Substantive Sentence ordered to run concurrently. The period of imprisonment pending trial ordered to be set off under Section 428 of Cr. P. C.

[case 876]
The case titled 'Prafulla Rambhau Kachare vs State Of Maharashtra' discusses the conviction of the accused for criminal acts. The accused was found guilty under Section 376(2)(f) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the POCSO Act for sexually assaulting a six-year-old child victim, who is the daughter of the informant. The incident is described through the oral report of the mother, who observed the absence of her daughter after returning home. She discovered that her child was taken by the accused and subjected to a heinous crime, which included physical evidence presented in court. The child's testimony was corroborated by several witnesses, leading to the conviction of the accused, who was sentenced to ten years of rigorous imprisonment and a substantial fine. The judgement reflects the seriousness of child protection laws in India and the legal remedies available for child victims of such offences.

[case 877]
Ravi And 2 Others vs State Of U. P. And 2 Others on 16 December, 2021. The present application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been filed seeking to quash the entire proceedings of Criminal Case No. 2377 of 2020 pending before the Special Judge, POCSO, Aligarh as well as summoning order dated 17. 10. 2020 arising out of Case Crime No. 428 of 2019, under Sections 363, 366, 376D of the Indian Penal Code and Section 5/6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The learned Magistrate upon examining the papers, took the view that the power to take cognizance in the matter would be with the Special Court constituted under the POCSO Act and not with the Magistrate. The case was thereafter taken up by the Special Judge, POCSO and taking into consideration the facts of the case, the Special Judge directed registration of the case and issuance of summons to the applicants herein.

[case 878]
Ananth vs Jenmarakkini on 30 January, 2024. This Civil Miscellaneous Appeal has been filed by the appellant/petitioner/husband, challenging the order passed by the learned Principal District Judge, at Thanjavur in I. D. O. P. No. 140 of 2012 dated 19. 04. 2018. The petitioner is a differently abled person who married Jenmarakkini in 1996. After several years of marriage, the respondent began to exhibit aggressive and controlling behavior, leading to Ananth experiencing severe physical and emotional abuse. Despite his complaints to authorities and continuous efforts to reconcile, Jenmarakkini refused to return until Ananth resolved to file for divorce in 2012. The trial court dismissed Ananths appeal, citing lack of evidence for his claims. Ananth has appealed the decision, emphasizing the need for protection and resolution regarding his matrimonial status, which severely affected him emotionally and mentally.

[case 879]
Deepak vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 21 November, 2023. This application coming on for orders this day, the court passed the following: The petitioner has preferred this petition under Section 482 of Cr. P. C. for quashment of the FIR dated 22. 8. 2021 bearing Crime No. 334/2021. Brief facts of the case are that Mangilal lodged an FIR stating that his relative/minor prosecutrix was residing in his house, and on 15. 8. 2021 he found that prosecutrix is missing. After gathering evidence, the petitioner was charged with kidnapping and raping the prosecutrix, resulting in a trial pending against him. A compromise was reached between the parties, verified by the Principal Registrar, and they solemnized marriage. Despite the compromise, the offenses are non-compoundable. Citing precedents, the court decided to quash the FIR, stating continuation would serve no purpose and wasting court resources was unjustified.

[case 880]
In 2025, during the session pertaining to the case of Sayyed Usman S/O Sayyedmohiddin vs The State Of Karnataka, the Karnataka High Court was presented with serious allegations against the petitioners for participating in a child marriage ceremony. The prosecution's claim was centered on the involvement of the petitioners, who held leadership roles within their community, alongside other accused individuals, in facilitating the marriage of a minor. Legal scrutiny was applied concerning the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act's stipulations, particularly Sections 10 and 11, which impose liability on those who aid in child marriages. However, the court found the lack of direct evidence or specific charges directed at the petitioners, consequently quashing the ongoing proceedings against them. This case represents a crucial stance on the necessity for clear evidentiary support in child marriage prosecutions.

[case 881]
V. John Prabhakar vs / on 7 November, 2022. The petitioners have filed this Writ Petition seeking a Writ of Mandamus directing further investigation, as they claim that the initial investigation was mismanaged and biased against them due to disputes arising within the Child Welfare Committee. The victim girl was diagnosed with conditions suggesting possible sexual abuse, and the Petitioners maintain their innocence amidst conflicting statements and the potential involvement of the victim's mother in influencing the investigation. The authorities have also made statements regarding the victim's medical conditions, leading to an ongoing trial under the POCSO Act. The learned Additional Public Prosecutor noted that the victims statements supported the allegations against the Petitioners, which led to their arrest. However, the Petitioners argue that the allegations were fabricated due to personal disputes.

[case 882]
Shivlal vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 12 June, 2023. This application comes as the first filed by Shivlal for grant of regular bail under Section 439 of the Cr. P. C. , concerning allegations under IPC and POCSO Act. The case centers around a 17-year-old girl who has alleged that Devlal committed murder and is also connected to Shivlal. The girl stated that she was repeatedly assaulted by Devlal on the promise of marriage. Post-assault, Devlal refused to marry her, which led to the registration of the FIR. There are allegations against Shivlal, as he allegedly threatened the girl. The court considered the application for bail and after reviewing the circumstances and allegations, determined that further detention was not warranted, allowing bail for Shivlal under certain conditions, including a personal bond. The court highlighted the importance of the necessary precautions until the end of the trial.

[case 883]
The issue before us is limited but one of considerable public importance  whether sexual intercourse between a man and his wife being a girl between 15 and 18 years of age is rape? Exception 2 to Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (the IPC) answers this in the negative, but in our opinion, sexual intercourse with a girl below 18 years of age is rape regardless of whether she is married or not. The exception carved out in the IPC creates an unnecessary and artificial distinction between a married girl child and an unmarried girl child and has no rational nexus with any unclear objective sought to be achieved. The artificial distinction is arbitrary and discriminatory and is definitely not in the best interest of the girl child. The artificial distinction turns a blind eye to trafficking of the girl child and surely each one of us must discourage trafficking which is such a horrible social evil.

[case 884]
Irfan vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 9 September, 2021. THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH. The present reference has been made for confirmation of order of capital punishment of death awarded which is arising out of judgment dated 21. 8. 2018, pronounced in S. T. No. 88/2018, passed by the 2nd A. S. J. Mandsaur / Special Judge (POCSO) Act whereby, the appellants/accused have been convicted under Sections 363, 366A, 376(2)(m), 376(DB) of IPC and as per Criminal Law (Amendment) Ordinance, 2018, 307 of IPC. The prosecutrix, a child of seven years of age was proved to have been subjected to violent gang rape by appellants and prosecutrix was also inflicted life threatening injuries. Conviction under Section 376(DB) of IPC and sentence of hanging by trial Court - Affirmed - Sentencing Policy Discussed - Legislature has imposed death penalty in incidents of child sexual abuse even though the victim has not died.

[case 885]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the proceedings in Spl. S. C. No. 113 of 2023 on the file of the Fast Track Mahila Court (Special Court for Exclusive trial of cases under POCSO Act, Dindigul). The case of the prosecution is that the first petitioner had married the victim girl, when she was minor and the first petitioner also had sexual intercourse with her. Hence, the case has been registered as against the petitioners. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioners and the learned Counsel appearing for the second respondent submitted that now, the petitioners and the second respondent/defacto complainant have settled the dispute between themselves amicably and the second respondent/defacto complainant is not willing to proceed further with the criminal case. Further it is submitted that the marriage has been registered on 13. 09. 2024 and the same was produced before this Court.

[case 886]
Radhika (Juvenile) vs State Of U. P. on 5 August, 2019. Allahabad High Court case discusses the appeals made by juveniles against bail rejections from the Special Judge, POCSO Act. The legal questions involved pertain to whether appeals under Section 101(5) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 are appropriate, whether the seriousness of the committed offense should influence bail decisions, and the procedural remedies available for juvenile offenders. The initial findings suggest the necessity of a trial as an adult for serious crimes and establishes a framework for assessing juveniles under the new legal provisions post the reform of existing laws. The appeals scrutinize factors for granting bail applicable to juveniles aged 16-18 involved in heinous offenses, discussing the rights of juveniles for bail and the influence of their criminal behavior on judicial decisions.

[case 887]
In the case of Arul Daniel vs Suganya decided on 4 May 2022, the Madras High Court examined the remedies available under the Domestic Violence Act, particularly concerning petitions filed under Section 482 Cr. P. C. The court emphasized that the proceedings under the D. V. Act are essentially civil but are governed by the procedural laws set forth in the Cr. P. C. The legislation aims to provide civil remedies for victims of domestic violence. The court highlighted how different High Courts have interpreted the question of the maintainability of proceedings and the jurisdiction of Magistrates versus Family Courts. The court concluded that although a Magistrate exercises civil jurisdiction under the D. V. Act, a petition under Section 482 Cr. P. C. to challenge such proceedings is not maintainable. Further, the court noted that there is an adequate appellate remedy available under Section 29 of the D. V. Act.

[case 888]
Neeraj Bundela vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 9 November, 2023. Madhya Pradesh High Court Neeraj Bundela vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 9 November, 2023. Applicant is in detention since 28. 09. 2023. 18 years old prosecutrix submitted an application before police alleging that her engagement took place with Neeraj Bundela. Neeraj Bundela was pressurizing for early marriage. In May 2022, he committed rape upon her and thereafter repeatedly committed rape. She is carrying 4 months pregnancy. FIR was registered. Applicant's counsel stated marriage has already taken place on 07. 12. 2022. Therefore, it is prayed that applicant may be released on bail. The objector's counsel has no objection if applicant is released on bail. The counsel for the State has opposed grant of bail to the applicant. It is directed that applicant - Neeraj Bundela will be released on bail subject to furnishing a personal bond.

[case 889]
Raju Yallappa vs The State Of Karnataka brings to light the legal complexities surrounding child sexual abuse cases within the Indian judicial system. The conviction under the POCSO Act signifies the judiciary's approach towards protecting minors and ensuring strict penalties for offenders. The trial involved the evaluation of witness testimonies alongside systemic considerations regarding the rights of the victim and the high court's approach to the appeal process, which eventually confirmed the guilty verdict related to the sexual crime. The judgment also discussed issues pertinent to the application of the SC/ST Act in such cases, revealing the overlapping nature of legal protections for children in marginalized communities against sexual violence. This underscores the importance of sensitive handling of cases involving child abuse to enforce justice and uphold the integrity of the legal process.

[case 890]
State Of Karnataka, vs Rajesab S/O Mabubsab Hirenaikar, on 13 January, 2020. This Criminal Appeal is filed under Section 378(1) & (3) of the CR. P. C. , praying to grant special leave to appeal against the Judgment and Order of acquittal dated 29. 04. 2015 passed by the II Addl. District and Sessions Judge and Special Judge, Dharwad in Special S. C. No. 2/2014. The prosecutrix had lodged a complaint accusing her father of sexual abuse since 2012. Based on her complaint, a medical examination was performed, revealing inconsistencies in her statements. The trial court acquitted the accused, highlighting that the prosecutrix initially supported the allegations but later became hostile. Several witnesses, including family members, also turned hostile during court proceedings. The state has appealed against the trial courts decision, citing that serious allegations against a father should not be taken lightly.

[case 891]
The case of Syed Jaffar Sadiq, Jaffar vs The State Of Telangana revolves around serious charges of sexual assault against two minor victims perpetrated by accused No. 1 and his juvenile son with the involvement of the victims' mother. The Metropolitan Sessions Judge found the primary accused guilty under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act), sentencing them to rigorous imprisonment including life sentences. The case highlighted not only the heinous nature of the crimes committed against vulnerable minors but also the systemic failures and challenges in collecting corroborative evidence within sensitive child protection cases. The judgment emphasized the critical need for child-friendly judicial processes to adequately support victims and ensure their dignity while addressing the complexities of sexual assault allegations.

[case 892]
This civil revision petition has been filed seeking to strick off the impugned complaint in DVC No. 121 of 2022 on the file of the Judicial Magistrate Court, Karaikudi in so far as the petitioners are concerned. The proceedings under the Domestic Violence Act are civil in nature and require the Magistrate to follow the procedure under the Code of Criminal Procedure. It has been stated that the word 'jurisdiction' relates to the power of the Court to decide a class or classes of cases. Cognizance can be taken if a report is submitted by the Protection Officer, and significant facts regarding physical abuse, dowry demands, and ill-treatment have been laid out. Inquiries into the children's welfare are also critical based on findings from the case. The rights to representation and appearance before the Magistrate can be exercised through counsel, further protecting the interests of the parties involved.

[case 893]
Surendra Kumar vs The State Of Bihar on 29 August, 2022. Patna High Court CRIMINAL MISCELLANEOUS No. 52191 of 2021 arising from PS. Case No. -438 Year-2019 concerning the sexual abuse of a five-year-old girl who was adopted from a specialized adoption agency. The complaint was made by the adoptive parents from the USA after discovering abnormalities related to the child's health that pointed towards sexual abuse. Following the case's investigation, serious allegations were leveled against several individuals, including government officers and social workers associated with the adoption process. As the trial progressed, legal arguments were put forth regarding the petitioners' responsibilities and the evidence available, including the victim's identification of the accused. The court ultimately decided not to grant bail based on the seriousness of the allegations and the potential for a lengthy trial.

[case 894]
The legal proceedings involve the case of Kavitha vs. Sutha, under Civil Revision Petition CRP. No. 4715 of 2023, decided by the Madras High Court on 14 February 2024. The case originates from D. V. C. No. 3 of 2022, wherein the first respondent, Sutha, lodged a complaint against the petitioners Kavitha and Magesh Kannan, alleging serious charges including attempted murder of her infant child and ongoing harassment. Kavitha and Magesh Kannan contested the allegations, asserting that they reside separately and thus, the claims against them are baseless and frivolous. The complaint asked for various legal remedies, including injunctions and financial support for the children, citing domestic violence laws. The court deemed the allegations unsubstantiated and quashed the proceedings against Kavitha and Magesh, emphasizing the necessity for genuine claims in order to protect the judicial process from misuse.

[case 895]
The case of Arul Daniel vs Suganya emphasized critical issues surrounding the proceedings of the Domestic Violence Act, thereby collating various case references evaluating if a legal case initiated under this act could be maintained or dismissed through different legal channels. It examined whether the established judicial protocols allowed for a robust response to domestic violence complaints or if such responses could be subjected to dismissal using the inherent powers granted under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The Madras High Court reaffirmed that the proceedings had to be looked at through the specific lens of civil remedies and rights specific to domestic violence complaints, thereby clarifying the protections afforded to victims. The bench found that the original legislative intent was to allow victims recourse without being deterred by the complex procedures of criminal law.

[case 896]
In the case State (Gnct Of Delhi) vs Mr X. on 2 April, 2019, the respondent is the father of the victim, leading to redaction of identities in the judgment. The Trial Court previously discharged the accused from charges under IPC sections 354 and 376(2)(f), prompting this petition that highlighted inadequate protection of the victim's rights. The victim revealed extensive sexual abuse spanning several years, starting when she was six. The ruling cited the accused's blindness and the victim's delay in reporting as key reasons for discharge, which the High Court found problematic as it undermined the gravity of the allegations and the dominant role of the father. The High Court concluded that the charges warrant reconsideration and remitted the case back to the Trial Court for appropriate charges to be framed, thereby addressing the urgency of child protection and rectifying the earlier oversight.

[case 897]
Nishant S/O. Prabhakarrao Dhande (In. .. vs State Of Maharashtra Thr. Police. .. on 20 March, 2018
The appellant is challenging the judgment and order dated 5. 11. 2015 rendered by the Additional Sessions Judge, Amravati in Sessions Trial 266 of 2013, by and under which, the appellant - accused is convicted for offence punishable under section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ("POCSO" Act) and is sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to payment of fine of Rs. 5, 000/-. The prosecution case is that the accused was a friend of the father of the victim, who was then aged 14 years and studying in 7th standard. After the incident was disclosed, the victims family lodged a report at Police Station, Rajapeth, Amravati, on the basis of which, an offence punishable under section 377 of Indian Penal Code and under section 3 and 4 of POCSO Act was registered.

[case 898]
In a case titled Jaymala Devi vs The State Of Bihar heard on 21 February 2025, the petitioner, Jaymala Devi, seeks regular bail in connection with Special POCSO Case No. 66 of 2022 arising from Amarpur P. S. Case No. 481 of 2022. The prosecution alleges that on 14 August 2022, at 8: 00 PM, the petitioner, along with co-accused persons, abducted the daughter of the informant and threatened him when he attempted to intervene. The petitioner's counsel argues that she was accused merely because she is related to a co-accused and insists that the victim herself has stated that she eloped with the co-accused voluntarily and has since married him. The petitioner has been in custody since 16 November 2024 and has a clean record. The court, considering the circumstances and duration of custody, granted the bail application, allowing her release upon furnishing a bail bond of Rs. 10, 000 with two sureties.

[case 899]
In the case of Sri Samuel Chinniahn vs The State Of Karnataka, the petitioner, aged 61, was accused of sexual assault under the POCSO Act after a complaint by Smt. Radha, a social worker who conducted workshops to raise awareness about sexual harassment among students. The workshop led to revelations by girls in V Standard alleging inappropriate touching by the petitioner. The police investigated and arrested the petitioner, who subsequently applied for bail after the trial court dismissed his initial bail application. The court assessed the merits of the evidence, including complaints from students who provided uniform statements but lacked specific allegations against the petitioner. The court ultimately ruled that there was insufficient evidence of sexual intent and allowed bail under specific conditions, taking into account the sensitivity of child abuse cases and the age of the petitioner.

[case 900]
In the case of Santosh Kumar vs State Of U. P. Thru. Secy. Home Lko. , the applicant seeks to quash the FIR lodged against him under various sections, including Section 3/4 of the POCSO Act, on the grounds that the victim was not a minor as alleged. The victim reportedly confirmed her age as 17, while her mother indicated 14 in the FIR. The legal proceedings also highlight that the applicant and the victim were in a consensual relationship and later married, which raises questions about the applicability of child protection laws. The court deliberated on the issue and referenced various legal precedents regarding age determination and the nature of consent in such cases. Ultimately, the court recognized the marital status of the applicant and victim and considered their children's welfare, leading to the quashing of the FIR due to insufficient evidence to maintain the case against the applicant.

[case 901]
Sheela Lall vs The State Of Mahdya Pradesh on 20 November, 2023
These Criminal Revisions are filed being aggrieved of order dated 23. 09. 2023 passed by learned Special Judge (POCSO Act), 2012/Second Additional District and Sessions Judge, Damoh (M. P. ), in SC No. 27/23 (on behalf of Ajay Lall S/o late Vijay Lall and others and 8 others, Shainit(Shanti) Lall, Sheela Lall W/o Shri Raj Kumar David Lall and Rajkamal David Lall, on the ground that charges have been framed by the learned Trial Judge under the provisions of Sub-section (5) of Section 370 of the Indian Penal Code (hereinafter referred to as the IPC for short), Section 186 of IPC, Section 42 and 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as the Act of 2015 for short), so also under Section 3/5 of M. P. Dharmik Swantrata Adhiniyam, 2021, without there being any basis for framing of said charges.

[case 902]
These batches of writ petitions involve identical questions of fact and law therefore, the aforesaid writ petitions are decided by a common judgment. In all the writ petitions, the petitioner on the date of commission of the offense was a juvenile in conflict with the law. After their arrest, they prayed for bail before the Juvenile Justice Board, but the prayer for bail was rejected and they preferred to appeal before the Learned Special Judge, Children's court. The petitioners have been in remand homes for various serious offenses including rape of minors under the POCSO Act and murder. The Court considered specific provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, noting the nature of the offenses and prior behavior of the petitioners, ultimately affirming the rejection of bail applications on grounds that releasing them would defeat the ends of justice and pose risks to both them and the community.

[case 903]
A perusal of the impugned order reveals that respondent nos. 3 and 4 were arrayed as accused in FIR No. 20(S)/2021/CBI/SC-III/ New Delhi dated 14th November, 2021 filed by the CBI on the basis of information that respondent nos. 3 and 4 along with other unknown persons were involved in circulating, storing and viewing CASM through social media groups. Pursuant to registration of the aforesaid FIR, a search was conducted during which a phone and a hard-disk of five-hundred (500) GB was recovered from the house of respondent no. 3 on 16th November, 2021 and two mobile phones were also recovered from respondent no. 4. Upon investigation, thirty-four (34) videos from the mobile phone and fourteen (14) videos from the hard-disk were recovered from respondent no. 3 and twenty-five (25) videos were recovered from the phones of respondent no. 4, wherein children were depicted in sexually explicit manner.

[case 904]
Imran Shamim Khan vs The State Of Maharashtra on 22 January, 2019. The appellant herein is convicted for the offence punishable under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and is sentenced to suffer R. I. for 10 years and to pay fine of Rs. 2000/- in default to suffer S. I. for 15 days. The victim, a minor girl, disclosed during initial inquiries of her experience of sexual assault. While legal proceedings highlighted the role of familial influence on a minor's testimony, the court stood firm in protecting the interests of the child, imposing robust penalties on the accused while striving to uphold the victims statements amidst pressures to recant. Highlighting the POCSO Act, the judgment called attention to the societal obligation to protect children from sexual offenses, stating explicitly that crimes against children are a breach against society as a whole.

[case 905]
In the High Court of Karnataka, a case dated 10th July 2024 discusses a legal petition filed by Manjunatha, who is accused of sexual offences under the IPC and the POCSO Act. Following a complaint from the mother of a teenage girl, it was alleged that Manjunatha had sexual relations with the girl, who was a minor at the time. The girl later became pregnant and the case led to Manjunathas arrest. As the case progressed, a petition to quash the proceedings was filed, arguing that both families were now supportive of their marriage. The Court, after hearing all parties involved, decided to grant interim bail to Manjunatha to marry the victim, recognizing their intent to establish a family and care for the child born from the relationship. The court ultimately quashed the proceedings based on the compromise between the families and the facts that Manjunatha and the victim wanted to be together.

[case 906]
Libnus S/O Fransis Kujur vs State Of Maharashtra Thr. Pso Ps. .. on 15 January, 2021. This appeal challenges the judgment and order passed by the Special Judge, Gadchiroli, District Gadchiroli in Special POCSO Case No. 07/2019 dated 05/10/2020 by which the appellant/accused is convicted for the offence punishable under Sections 354-A(1)(i) and 448 of the Indian Penal Code (for short "IPC") and Sections 8, 10 and 12 read with Section 9(m) and 11(i) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short POCSO Act). The prosecution story, in brief, is as under: On 12/02/2018, the informant (mother of the prosecutrix) lodged a report stating therein that on 11/02/2018, she had gone to her duty during the period between 8. 00 a. m. to 4. 00 p. m. , and when she returned, she noticed the presence of appellant/accused in her house and molesting her minor daughter, aged about five years.

[case 907]
The case involves Arun Alias Arun Kumar who filed an application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure with the Allahabad High Court against the State of U. P. The applicant, along with the informants and victims, presented himself before the court to seek the quashing of prior summons and ongoing proceedings regarding allegations under multiple sections, including IPC and the POCSO Act, arising from a romantic relationship with the victim. The applicant insisted that both individuals were adults at the time of marriage and had since raised a child together. The court reviewed evidence and considered the stability of the victim's current family life, ultimately quashing previous orders to avoid further complications in their domestic life. Several precedents were cited to support this decision, emphasizing inherent powers to prevent judicial abuse and protect familial integrity.

[case 908]
Vidhi Ka Ulanghan Karne Wala Balak vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 3 March, 2022. The Madhya Pradesh High Court addressed the case of a Child in Conflict with Law concerning allegations under the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The court emphasized the principles of the Juvenile Justice Act, stating that juveniles cannot be treated as under trial prisoners in the context of criminal procedures. Therefore, the provisions regarding the maximum detention period for undertrials do not apply to them. The specific conditions under which a child could be imprisoned are to be reformed and rehabilitated, and detention is only meant for serious offenses. Hence, the petition for release based on the completion of the half-period of detention was dismissed, reaffirming that the primary focus should be on the welfare of the child rather than punitive measures.

[case 909]
An appeal has been preferred by the appellant/convict under Section 374(2) of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr. P. C. ) challenging the judgment and order on sentence dated 09. 01. 2023 and 16. 01. 2023 respectively passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge, Special Court POCSO, Saket Court, New Delhi in Session Case No. 2781/2016, FIR No. 529/2016 under Section 376/354/506/509 IPC and Section 8/10 of POCSO Act, PS: Jaitpur, Delhi. The appellant has been thereby sentenced for offence punishable under Section 10 of POCSO Act, 2012 to RI for five years and fine of Rs. 2, 000/- (in default of payment of fine, to undergo SI for 15 days); for offence punishable under Section 506 IPC to RI for five years and fine of Rs. 2000/- (in default of payment of fine, to undergo SI for 15 days), with benefit of Section 428 Cr. P. C. Appellant has also been directed to pay compensation of Rs. 20, 000/- to the victim.

[case 910]
This Criminal Appeal has been filed seeking to set aside the Judgment of conviction and sentence passed by the learned Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under POCSO Act, Salem in Special S. C. No. 103 of 2019 dated 20. 09. 2021 and acquit the appellant herein. The respondent police registered the case against the appellant in Crime No. 5 of 2018 for offence punishable under Sections 7 and 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. After completing the investigation, the respondent police laid charge sheet before the Sessions Judge, Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Cases under POCSO Act, Salem, and the learned Special Judge after completing the formalities, taken up the charge sheet on file in Spl. S. C. No. 103 of 2019 and framed charges against the appellant for offence under Section 7 read with 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

[case 911]
This is a petition under Section 439 Cr. P. C. He has sought bail in connection with a case registered against him in Crime No. 172/2017 for the offences punishable under Section 376 of IPC and Sections 4, 6 and 8 of POCSO Act, 2012. The allegation found against him is that on 20. 3. 2017 at about 3. 00 p. m. he took the daughter of the complainant aged about 4 years to his house and sexually abused her. A report in this regard was made at 11. 15 p. m. on the same day. The investigation is completed and charge sheet is filed. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the statement of the girl under Section 161 Cr. P. C. was recorded by the Investigation Officer taking the help of the Social worker, as the victim girl does not know Kannada. The father of the girl translated the answers given by the child in Gadwali language into Hindi and thereafter Hindi version was translated into Kannada.

[case 912]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD

? Neutral Citation No.
- 2025: AHC: 35435

Court No.
- 65

Case: - CRIMINAL MISC.
- 38451 of 2024

Applicant: - Sunny

Opposite Party: - State Of U. P.
And 3 Others

Counsel for Applicant: - Kumar Ashutosh Srivastava, Mohd.
Zeeshan, Nagendra Bahadur Singh, Surendra Mohan Mishra, Vishveshwar Mani Tripathi

Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. ,Riyajuddin Ansari

Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J.
The applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No.
158 of 2024, U/S 363, 376 IPC and 5(j)2/6 POCSO Act, Police Station Gauri Bazar, District Deoria, during the pendency of trial.
The court notes the absence of any criminal history of the applicant.

[case 913]
Sanal Kumar vs State Of Kerala on 9 September 2020. This Bail Application is filed under Section 439 of Criminal Procedure Code was heard through Video Conference. The petitioner is the accused in Crime No. 229 of 2020 of Kaipamangalam Police Station. Thrissur. The above case is registered against the petitioner alleging offence punishable under Sections 354A(1)(i), 354A(1)(iii), 354 C of IPC and u/s. 9l, 9n, 10, 11(1), 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short 'POCSO Act'). Victim in this case is the daughter of the petitioner. The petitioner sexually abused his own daughter aged 14 years is the allegation against him. The allegation is that when the victim child was sleeping along with her mother, the father sexually abused her. The petitioner peeped through the bathroom when his own daughter was taking bath. This is the allegation against the petitioner.

[case 914]
Sheeba Joseph vs State Of Kerala on 27 November, 2018. The petitioner herein is the mother of the victim in Crime No. 422 of 2018 of the Kannamaly Police Station. The victim, a 8 year old minor girl, was allegedly abused by the accused in the said crime during the period from 2014 to 2017. The accused was a minor in the year 2014 and he attained majority in the month of March, 2017. According to the petitioner, though act of sexual molestation was committed even after the accused had attained majority, the investigating officer is proceeding with the investigation as if the accused is a child in conflict with law. She further raises a grievance that though the concept of appointment of Victim Liaison Officer has been brought into effect in the State of Kerala on and from 21. 10. 2017, no such officer has been appointed to provide protection and to ensure justice to the victim and her family.

[case 915]
The case refers to Sachin S/O Shivaji Dhongade, who was convicted under Section 3(a) of the POCSO Act for committing penetrative sexual assault on a four-year-old girl. The trial revealed that the child had been taken to the accuseds home, stripped of her clothes, and violated. The evidence presented included medical examinations and witness testimonies, which corroborated the victim's assertion of the alleged crime. The judgment concluded that the accused's actions constituted a grave offense under child protection laws, warranting imprisonment and fines. The State argued that the severity of the crime justified a stronger conviction under aggravated sexual assault laws due to the victim's age. Further hearings focused on whether the punishment should reflect the serious nature of the offense, considering legal provisions that provide for harsher penalties for such acts against minors.

[case 916]
Appellant-State of Rajasthan has preferred this Leave to Appeal impugning judgment dated 15th of January 2016, passed by Sessions Judge, Pali acquitting accused-respondent for offence under Section 354D IPC and Section 11/12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Succinctly stated, the facts of the case are that victim (child) Ms. 'L' lodged an FIR at Police Station Mahilal Thana, alleging offence against the accused-respondent who persistently harassed her and threatened her to develop friendship with him. The learned trial Court acquitted the accused-respondent with a categorical finding that prosecution failed to bring guilt against him. The appeal by the State challenges this acquittal, stating the court erred in appreciation of evidence, especially under the POCSO Act aimed at protecting minors from sexual exploitation.

[case 917]
In the High Court of Gujarat, criminal appeals were examined regarding the conviction of Ashokbhai following the reported abduction and sexual assault of a minor under the relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the POCSO Act. The case reflects serious violations of child protection laws, where the victims age, at just under 16 years at the time of the incident, posed critical legal questions concerning consent and the responsibilities of the judicial system in prosecuting such offenses. The public prosecutor sought appeals to enhance the sentence, specifically emphasizing the need for stringent legal consequences under statutory rape legislation intended to protect children from exploitation. Previous case laws and judicial precedents were analyzed to argue for a more severe penalty in light of the amendment brought to statutory laws regarding sexual offenses against minors.

[case 918]
In the case of State vs. Mohan, a minor girl was subjected to attempted sexual assault by the accused Mohan. The girl was lured away after dropping money, and when she resisted, she raised an alarm, leading to the apprehension of the accused. The police were notified immediately, and investigations followed, ultimately leading to a conviction under the POCSO Act and IPC sections concerning sexual offenses against minors. In the judgment, it was noted that the child suffered from the traumatic experience of attempted aggravated penetrative sexual assault. The court emphasized the importance of protecting children and the seriousness of offenses against the basic human rights of minors. The court also made provisions for compensation for the victim as part of the sentencing process, in acknowledgment of the psychological and emotional impacts of such crimes on the well-being of children.

[case 919]
Sabari @ Sabarinathan @ Sabarivasan vs The Inspector Of Police on 9 January, 2019. This criminal appeal is directed against the order of the Court of Sessions, Fast Track Court (Mahila Judge), Namakkal, in Special Calendar Case No. 55 of 2015, dated 20. 06. 2018, convicting the appellant/A1 under Section 363 of IPC and Section 5(l) read with Section 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and sentencing him to undergo five years Rigorous Imprisonment, along with a fine of Rs. 2, 000/-, in default, sentencing him to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for three months for the offence under Section 363 IPC; and further sentencing him to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for ten years along with a fine of Rs. 3, 000/-, in default, sentencing him to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for four months for the offence under Section 5(1) r/w Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ('POCSO Act' for brevity).

[case 920]
Abhorrent child abuses and inexcusable indifference to the crime are one of the gravest social evils prevalent in the present society. A child can be abused in many ways. Mental, physical and sexual abuses are some of them. Multi-dimensional complexities of human life, misuse of social media platforms and changed socio-economic conditions expose the children to new and different forms of abuses. It includes causing mental and physical injuries, neglecting, blaming, forced sexual serfdom, incest exploitation, etc. Child abuses take place in their homes, schools, orphanages and residential care facilities. Even on the streets, in work places and in prisons too such violations occur. Violence in any form will cause a deep impact and leave an indelible scar in the mind of the child. Child abuse results in a real or potential harm to the child's health, personality development and dignity.

[case 921]
In the recent case of Dr. Shivamurthy Murugha Sharanaru vs. State of Karnataka, the Karnataka High Court addressed serious allegations against the petitioner, who is the pontiff and chief of a religious mutt. He faces grave charges under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the POCSO Act, and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The background involves two minor girls, previously residents of a hostel run by the mutt, alleging sexual harassment by the petitioner. Given the serious nature of the allegations, the case has raised questions about the legal remedies available to the victims and the necessary protective measures to ensure their safety amidst ongoing legal proceedings. The court examined vitally important elements such as the gravity of the offences, the influence of the accused, and the protection of minors under judicial scrutiny.

[case 922]
The testimony of S' was, thereafter, recorded, albeit without oath, given his tender age. He categorically stated, in his deposition, that three boys and one Amar Deep had, in the Children's Home, kissed (him) on (his) lips and had established peno-anal contact with him. This, he testified, had continued repeatedly for some days, with associated threats to neutralise him, were he to report the incident to anyone. He also stated that, whenever the act was committed he used to feel pain and it used to bleed.  The prosecution relied on this testimony to convict the appellant of serious sexual offences under the POCSO Act, aiming to emphasize the gravity of the charges at hand. However, the defense contested this by pointing out inconsistencies between the depositions and the initial statements made by the child, suggesting possible coaching or manipulation of the childs testimony.

[case 923]
Abhorrent child abuses and inexcusable indifference to the crime are one of the gravest social evils prevalent in the present society. A child can be abused in many ways. Mental, physical and sexual abuses are some of them. Multi-dimensional complexities of human life, misuse of social media platforms and changed socio-economic conditions expose the children to new and different forms of abuses. It includes causing mental and physical injuries, neglecting, blaming, forced sexual serfdom, incest exploitation, etc. Child abuses take place in their homes, schools, orphanages and residential care facilities. Even on the streets, in workplaces and in prisons too such violations occur. Violence in any form will cause a deep impact and leave an indelible scar in the mind of the child. Child abuse results in a real or potential harm to the child's health, personality development and dignity.

[case 924]
An important case is presented before the Karnataka High Court concerning accusations against a former Chief Minister of India regarding sexual misconduct with a minor. Here, the Court emphasizes the legal responsibilities of the magistrate when taking cognizance of a case, particularly those associated with the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The requisite foundation for the magistrate to act includes a thorough analysis of documentation, witness statements, and police reports to ascertain preliminary sufficiency of claims. This necessity stems not only from statutory provisions but also from well-established legal principles aimed at safeguarding minors and ensuring that their rights are protected throughout the legal process. Consequently, errors in the initial cognizance processes could lead to significant legal repercussions for both the accused and the accuser.

[case 925]
In the case of Mohit Rajput vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh, the petitioner, Mohit Rajput, is seeking bail after being charged under multiple laws including the POCSO Act. The case revolves around an alleged sexual relationship with a minor. The petitioner claims that the victim, aged 16 years and 6 months, consented to the relationship, while the state argues that according to the POCSO Act, a child is defined as anyone below 18 years, which means the victim cannot give consent legally. The court discusses the complexities of consent, the age of the victim, and relevant precedents from previous cases in determining whether the physical relations constituted a crime under the POCSO Act or not. The court ultimately ruled against the bail application, emphasizing that the protections under the POCSO Act are in place to safeguard minors from exploitation, regardless of perceived consent.

[case 926]
The case of the prosecution is that there is a matrimonial dispute between the defacto complainant's daughter and the brother of the petitioner herein. When the defacto complainant and his daughter went to the petitioner's house to take back the child his daughter, the accused is said to have abused the defacto complainant and his daughter. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner would submit that the second respondent lodged a complaint before the first respondent in Crime No. 176 of 2017 and after investigation, final report was filed and the same was taken cognizance in CC. No. 324 of 2024 on the file of the learned Judicial Magistrate, Tirumangalam for the offences under Sections 294(b), 324 and 506(ii) IPC against the petitioner. The case is under trial. By passage of time, the parties have decided to bury their hatchet and compromise the dispute amicably among themselves.

[case 927]
The ruling in the case of Ms. Eera Through Dr. Manjula Krippendorf against the State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) on July 21, 2017, holds profound significance in interpreting the POCSO Act's protective measures for children. The Court deliberated on defining 'child' in a manner that considers mental age, particularly for those who are mentally challenged but above the chronological age of 18. Ms. Eeras situation where her capacity to comprehend and participate in judicial proceedings was radically different from her biological age reflects a major concern in the legal system, one that must align with the legislative goal of child protection. The judgment emphasized the need for a sensitive and adaptable approach to ensure that the true intent of the POCSO Act is realized, allowing for the proper treatment of victims who do not fit neatly into the traditional definitions provided by law.

[case 928]
The court case SC No: 58023/16 involved the prosecution of Manjeet Pandey under allegations of kidnapping a 2-year-old girl, referred to as 'S', and committing penetrative sexual assault on her. An FIR was registered following the complaint from the victim's sister, who testified that the accused lured her sister away on the pretext of buying her something. Witnesses, including the victims sister and a public witness, corroborated the accusation by describing the incident and the blood found on the victim. Medical examinations revealed that the girl had sustained injuries consistent with sexual assault, which was further supported by forensic evidence linking the accused to the crime. The judge ultimately convicted Manjeet Pandey for offences under Section 376 IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act, acknowledging the reliable testimonies and medical evidence presented during the trial.

[case 929]
Anutosh Pratap Singh vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 29 May, 2017. M. Cr. C. No. 7820 of 2017. This is an application under section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 for grant of bail on behalf of applicant Anutosh Pratap Singh in connection with Crime No. 114/2017. The allegation levelled against him is that between 13. 02. 2017 to 23. 02. 2017, he is alleged to have sexually abused the prosecutrix who is a three year old child. The mother of the prosecutrix alleges that the child was taken to the hospital where a doctor informed her of the abuse, however, the doctor contradicted the mother's statement. The FIR was registered on 27. 02. 2017 and the MLC report indicates minor injuries. CCTV footage did not support the allegations against the applicant. The court decided to grant bail due to lack of evidence against the applicant based on the totality of the information available.

[case 930]
Challenging the order of acquittal dated 22. 09. 2017 passed by the Sessions Judge (Mahila Fast Track Court), Nagapattinam in S. C. No. 14/2015, the State has filed the present appeal. The respondent stood charged for the offences punishable under Section 6 r/w. 5(l)(m) and (j)(ii) and Section 10 r/w. 9(l)(m) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short POCSO Act) by the trial court in S. C. No. 14/2015. The case of the prosecution as could be discerned from the oral and documentary evidence is as follows: The victim (P. W. 1) is residing with her parents and her siblings at Kandiyur Village, Kutthalam Taluk, Nagapattinam District. She was studying VIII standard in 2013. According to P. W. 1, her parents are daily wagers. The date of birth of the victim is 03. 06. 2001 as per the Transfer Certificate (Ex. P3) issued by the Government Higher Secondary School, Kutthalam. ..

[case 931]
In the case of State Represented By vs Kathir on 10 October, 2022, the Madras High Court revisits a judgment passed under the POCSO Act, concerning the alleged sexual assault of a 3-year-old girl. The State challenged the acquittal of the respondent, asserting that the evidence presented, particularly from the victim, was sufficient to establish the accused's guilt. The appeal contended that the trial court erroneously found the victims and her parents' testimonies inconsistent and unreliable, leading to an erroneous judgment. The appellate court scrutinized the evidence and emphasized that if the evidence of a minor victim is trustworthy, it can serve as the sole basis for conviction. The Court also underscored the importance of not allowing technicalities to obstruct justice in such grave matters, affirming the necessity of proper interpretation and application of the POCSO Act.

[case 932]
Dharamveer @ Dharo Manjhi vs The State Of Bihar on 9 April, 2024
The present appeal has been filed under Section 374(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 challenging the judgment of conviction dated 22. 06. 2017 and order of sentence dated 28. 06. 2017 passed by learned 1st Additional Sessions Judge-cum-Special Judge, Nalanda. The appellant was convicted for offences under Sections 366A, 376, 363 of IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act, receiving multiple sentences including life imprisonment. The facts indicate that the appellant was found with a 4-year-old girl whom he had allegedly raped after taking her away in the night. Witnesses reported him being near the scene of the crime and later confessing to the act. Medical examination confirmed sexual abuse, aligning with the prosecution's claims. The appeal argues lack of eyewitnesses and reliability of circumstantial evidence.

[case 933]
In the case of State V/s Bittu @ Rajesh, the accused was charged with multiple offenses including penetrative sexual assault under Section 376 of IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act. The case revolved around the testimony of a minor girl who reported that her uncle, after putting her under criminal intimidation, had repeatedly sexually assaulted her. The prosecution presented evidence from multiple witnesses, including medical reports confirming the girl's pregnancy, as well as DNA evidence linking the accused to the child. Despite the defense claiming false implication due to familial tensions and a lack of immediate reporting to authorities, the court established that the victims fear played a significant role in the delay. Ultimately, the accused was found guilty and sentenced accordingly, with the court emphasizing the need for child protection laws to prevail in such cases.

[case 934]
In the matter of:  SC No. : 62/02/13 FIR No. : 127/13 Police Station: Dwarka South Case ID No. : 02405R0233062013 Under Section: u/s 342/34 & U/s 323/34, U/s 109 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and U/s 4 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Evidence presented during the trial indicated that a child victim accused her relatives of physical and sexual abuse. While initially contributing significant information leading to a filed FIR, upon further examination, the child victim disavowed her prior allegations, stating that she acted under the influence of an external individual who encouraged her to fabricate claims. The trial concluded with the acquittal of the accused due to a lack of corroborative evidence. The court highlighted that under the framework of the POCSO Act, despite the circumstances of false allegations, the child victim cannot face repercussions.

[case 935]
On completing the examination of the prosecution witnesses, incriminating circumstances culled out from the evidence of prosecution witnesses were put before the accused by questioning under Section 313 Cr. P. C. , with reference to incriminating circumstances appears against him and he denied the same as false and pleaded not guilty. On the side of the defence, no witness was examined, however, Ex. R1 was marked and the Court document C1 was also marked. On completion of trial, after hearing the arguments advanced on either side and considering the materials, the Special Court found that the appellant/accused was not guilty for the offence under Section 354-C IPC. However, found that the appellant/accused was guilty for the offence under Sections 294(b), 323 and 354-A IPC and Section 7 which is punishable under Section 8 of POCSO Act and he was convicted and sentenced as follows. ..

[case 936]
This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to quash the proceedings in Spl. C. C. No. 38 of 2024. The case of the prosecution is that the first petitioner had married the third respondent/victim, when she was 17 years old. It came to the knowledge of the second respondent/defacto complainant and he lodged a complaint. The learned counsel submitted that the petitioners and the second respondent have settled the dispute amicably. The victim stated that she is leading a happy life with the first petitioner and does not wish to pursue the case. The case has been registered for offences under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and the POCSO Act. It is well settled law that the High Court can quash proceedings even for non-compoundable offences if the dispute is settled. In the current case, the court found the parties have settled voluntarily and quashed the criminal proceedings.

[case 937]
The State Of Karnataka vs Sri Brahmadeva ruling from the Karnataka High Court involved significant legal determinations regarding child protection laws and the evidentiary requirements for prosecuting sexual offenses against minors. The victim in this case reported her traumatic experiences of abuse over two years while under the care of a Child Care Institution but faced an acquittal of the accused due to a lack of corroborative evidence and witness challenges. This raised crucial questions about how child testimonies are treated under the law and the expectations for corroboration or additional substantiation of claims made by young victims. The trial court effectively highlighted the critical balance needed between protecting the rights of the accused and the rights of the child victima balance that remains a contentious issue within the framework of child protection laws.

[case 938]
The appellant - accused is before this Court challenging the legality and correctness of the judgment passed by the III Additional District and Sessions Judge, Special Court under POCSO Act. The prosecution alleged that the victim girl was sexually assaulted by the accused, Ramappa, and forced to consume pesticide. The evidence presented included testimonies from the mother of the victim and medical evidence stating that the victim was treated for injuries related to the alleged incident. After evaluation, the court found inconsistencies in the testimonies and questioned the credibility of the witnesses, particularly noting that the charge of sexual assault could not be substantiated beyond reasonable doubt. Ultimately, the convictions for severe charges were set aside, but one for Section 324 of IPC regarding assault was upheld, leading to a partial acquittal for the accused.

[case 939]
Tulsi Sahu vs State Of Chhattisgarh on 25 March, 2025. HIGH COURT OF CHHATTISGARH AT BILASPUR MCRC No. 790 of 2025. The applicant has filed this bail application under Section 483 of the Bhartiya Nagrrik Suraksha Sanhita for grant of regular bail as he is in custody in connection with Crime No. 258/2024 registered at police station Mahasamund, District Mahasamund (CG) for the offence punishable under Sections 376, 376(3), 506 Part-II of IPC and Sections 4 & 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012. The case involves a minor girl who was allegedly subjected to sexual assault and found pregnant following the incident. The applicant argued that he was falsly implicated and that the charges against him lack credibility. After a detailed review of the facts, the court granted bail under certain conditions. The case addresses significant questions about the rights of minors in judicial proceedings.

[case 940]
In a notable case, the Madras High Court dealt with a petition filed by N. Dharmarajan, a Taekwondo coach, accused of sexually abusing girls in his coaching class. The case stemmed from allegations made by students that he had committed offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. During the hearings, three alleged victims testified they had been pressured into making false statements against the petitioner by two individuals, recognized as Aravind and Pradeep. The Court, finding no credible evidence against the petitioner and acknowledging the false nature of the accusations, directed the authorities to take action against the individuals who manipulated the case. The proceedings against the petitioner were ultimately quashed, restoring his position and reputation.

[case 941]
In the case of Prabhakar G vs State Of Karnataka, the Karnataka High Court deals with a criminal petition filed by the petitioners seeking to quash legal proceedings initiated against them for serious offenses related to the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. After the complaint was registered, the petitioners argued that the victim, having reached the age of majority, had voluntarily married the first petitioner after the alleged incident, and they both sought to compound the offenses. The court emphasized that it has the authority to quash proceedings based on the settlement between the parties and the gravity of the offences, referencing prior judgments which recognized that marriage could affect the proceedings. Ultimately, the court quashed the proceedings in light of the marriage, deeming further proceedings to be unnecessary and a waste of judicial time.

[case 942]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Lekhraj vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 5 February, 2025. This Criminal Revision has been filed under Section 397 r/w 401 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 against the order of framing of charges dated 20. 01. 2023, whereby the charges under Sections 370(2), 370(3), 370A(2), 346, 370(2) & (3), 370A(2) r/w 120-B of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 3, 4, 6, 7 of PITA Act and Section 22/38 of the M. P. Excise Act have been framed against the present applicant. According to prosecution, while conducting an investigation into an illegal dance bar, 67 girls were residing in poor conditions and were allegedly trafficked and exploited. An FIR was registered concerning grievous offenses. The applicants, although employed as musicians, were initially not named in the FIR and argued that they were wrongly accused of participating in trafficking activities.

[case 943]
Raju Yallappa vs The State Of Karnataka addresses crucial aspects of the judicial response to child sexual abuse, demonstrating how the legal system navigates through accusations against an individual under the POCSO and SC/ST Acts. The appellant was found guilty of sexually assaulting a minor from a Scheduled Tribe, with significant reliance on witness accounts and medical evidence to substantiate the child's claims. This ruling emphasized the judiciary's commitment to uphold child protection laws and ensure offenders face stringent penalties. The case exemplifies the collaborative effort needed among law enforcement, medical professionals, and judicial entities to achieve effective outcomes in child abuse cases. The complexities highlighted in this case contribute to discourse surrounding legal reforms needed to enhance the efficacy of child protection mechanisms in India.

[case 944]
Rakesh Charandas Lonbale (In Jail) vs The State Of Maha. , Thr. P. S. O. , P. S. .. . on 7 June, 2017
The present appeal is directed against the judgment and order of conviction passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Chandrapur in Sessions Case No. 108/2003 on 10. 04. 2015. The appellant is convicted for an offence punishable under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 10 years. The prosecutrix in this case will be referred to as 'K'. The FIR was lodged by 'K' on 08. 06. 2013. The investigation involved medical examination of 'K', which confirmed injuries consistent with the allegations. The learned Additional Sessions Judge framed charges under multiple sections including the POCSO Act. The appeal questions the evidence reliability and prosecution's investigation thoroughness, seeking justice and appropriate remedies for 'K'.

[case 945]
Gaurav S/O Sopan Narkhede vs The State Of Maharashtra And Anr on 1 September, 2021
. .. On receiving the message, the informant entered the bedroom of her daughter and pointedly asked her about the messages forwarded by the applicant, upon which the girl handed over her mobile to the mother and asked herself to have a look. On not finding the messages and on persisting that she should reply, she went into the mobile gallery and opened a folder in the caption 'S. S' and told her to have look at it and she barged out of the room. On inspecting, screenshots were found in the mobile phone and immediately, by keeping mobile on the bed, the Informant followed her daughter, who by that time, jumped from the gallery of other bedroom. On realizing the severity of the shocking incident, the informant became unconscious and she was informed that her daughter was taken to the hospital. ..

[case 946]
In the case 'Usman Khan vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh' dated 12 October, 2023, the appellant Usman Khan has been convicted under Section 376(2)(n) IPC for sexual assault against a 17-year-old girl. The details include that the appellant, aged 40, had taken the girl to introduce her to his sister but ended up sexually assaulting her while threatening her to remain silent. He has already served 4 years and 6 months of a 10-year sentence. The appellant has filed for suspension of his sentence and bail based on the argument that no DNA evidence was presented and there was a substantial delay in filing the FIR. The Public Prosecutor opposes the bail request, emphasizing the heinous nature of the crime against a minor. The High Court, after considering the case, has decided to grant bail on the grounds of the significant time already served and no imminent hearing of the appeal.

[case 947]
In the case of Aishabeevi vs State Of Kerala on 13 August, 2018, the accusation made involved Crime No. 1253/2018, where the petitioners/accused were alleged to have trespassed into the complainant's property and inflicted harm during a property dispute. The first accused is specifically noted for allegedly slapping the informant, while the minor child of the informant was reported to have been sexually harassed. The court analyzed the situation, mentioning that although the applicants sustained injuries, the seriousness of the accusations necessitated a careful consideration of custodial interrogation. The court eventually allowed the bail application, imposing several conditions including cooperation with the investigation and preventing any intimidation of witnesses, while also highlighting the sensitive nature of the allegations, especially concerning the minor involved.

[case 948]
Mrs. Praveena vs The Child Welfare Committee (North) on 5 April, 2024. W. P. No. 4843 of 2024. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 05. 04. 2024. CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S. M. SUBRAMANIAM. Mrs. Praveena. .. Petitioner. Vs. 1. The Child Welfare Committee (North), Through its President / Chairman, 2. Mariyakaya Girls Home. .. Respondents. Prayer: Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for issuance of a Writ of Mandamus, directing the 1st respondent to consider petitioner representation dated 16. 02. 2024 and to direct the 1st respondent to pass an order to give custody of the petitioner's minor adopted child namely A. Prithika aged about 11 years to petitioner. The child is safe in Government Home Sevasadhan. .. . Considering all facts and circumstances, this Court is of the considered opinion that the petitioner is not entitled for custody.

[case 949]
The case under discussion in the Karnataka High Court involves serious accusations against a political leader pertaining to misconduct with a minor. The Court deliberates on the procedures necessary for taking cognizance of these allegations as outlined under the Criminal Procedure Code concerning the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences. The emphasis is placed on a magistrate's duty to analyze all relevant documentation, including but not limited to FIRs, witness statements, and any evidence gathered as part of the investigation. This requirement is crucial in determining whether the charges establish a prima facie case sufficient to warrant consideration in court. Furthermore, failures in this procedural aspect can lead to direct injustices, as improper cognizance may inadvertently strip victims of their rights and compromise the integrity of the judicial process.

[case 950]
Sonali Gupta vs Amit Gupta @ Sachin & Ors. on 25 February, 2025. Delhi High Court. Author: Jasmeet Singh. Petitioner Sonali Gupta alleged physical and mental abuse by her husband and in-laws. A complaint was filed under Section 12 of the Domestic Violence Act. The lower court only summoned her husband, which Sonali contested, arguing all related parties should be summoned for their alleged roles in her abuse. The court considered definitions of 'domestic relationship' and noted the complexity of vague allegations within domestic dispute cases. The outcome of this judgment underscores the importance of substantiated claims for domestic violence cases to succeed, considering the challenges of evidence requirements and potential misuse of legal provisions. Ultimately, the appeal was dismissed, yet Sonali Gupta retains the opportunity to provide further evidence if available.

[case 951]
This habeas corpus petition has been filed for production of the corpus Neetu Aadiwasi, who is stated to be under protection of a Government Women Protection Home/Nari Niketan, Kanpur Nagar. A perusal of the record reveals that the corpus is a victim of a crime which was reported as Case Crime No. 190 of 2017 at P. S. Sipri Bazar, District Jhansi, under Sections 363, 366 IPC. The said case was registered at the instance of Ram Babu Aadiwasi, the father of the corpus, who alleged that his minor daughter has been enticed away by the accused persons including the petitioner no. 2. In connection with the aforesaid case, the victim was recovered and her statement was recorded in which she disclosed that she had voluntarily married the petitioner no. 2 and that no offence has been committed. A medical examination was also undertaken and she has been found to be aged about 18 years.

[case 952]
In the case of Gundappa vs The State Of Karnataka, the petitioner Gundappa seeks bail under Section 439 of Cr. P. C. related to a crime involving kidnapping and offences under the POCSO Act. The complaint arises from an incident where a 5-year-old girl was kidnapped while playing outside her house. The petitioner argues that he is innocent, claiming he is falsely implicated, and no serious charges warranting life imprisonment have been filed against him. The Government Pleader counters that the petitioner intended to sexually assault the minor, raising concerns that he may abscond if granted bail. The Court reviews the FIR, complaints, and evidence, determining that while there is no clear justification for POCSO Act charges, there are sufficient grounds related to IPC Section 366(A). The bail is granted with stringent conditions to ensure the interests of justice are met.

[case 953]
In the case of Raju Yallappa vs The State Of Karnataka, the appellant was convicted for having committed rape on a 9-year-old girl, emphasizing that she belonged to a Scheduled Tribe. The proceedings involved numerous testimonies and evidence leading to a conviction under the POCSO Act and related laws. The case identified critical aspects of the law, including the importance of corroborative evidence when it comes to the testimonies of child witnesses, especially in violent crimes against minors. The court's decision addressed the presumption of culpability under the SC/ST Act while processing the legal implications of sexual crimes against minors. The final judgment confirmed significant aspects of the trial court's verdict while dismissing some charges against the accused, demonstrating the complexities involved in judicial determinations concerning child abuse cases.

[case 954]
Dr. L Veena vs The State Of Karnataka on 29 August, 2017 This case concerns multiple criminal petitions filed by the Director and staff of a preschool in Karnataka against proceedings initiated under the POCSO Act and IPC. Parents have alleged sexual abuse of their children, implicating not only the accused but also the school management for their negligence. The legal discussion centers around whether the charges can be upheld against the management without the requisite complaint from a public servant, as demanded by Section 195 of the Cr. P. C. The petitioners argue for the quashing of the FIR based on procedural deficiencies while the prosecution maintains that the essence of the charges still warrants continuation of the cases. The court's analytical findings point towards a potential quashing due to the procedural lapses regarding jurisdiction and officer complaints.

[case 955]
The FIR in Crime No. 266 of 2018 was registered based on the complaint given by the second respondent/defacto complainant, that his minor daughter was found missing. During the course of investigation, it was found that the first petitioner had kidnapped the minor girl and had committed a sexual assault on the victim/minor girl. The learned counsel for the petitioner would further submit that the first petitioner and the second respondent/defacto complainant belong to the same locality and they also belong to the same community. The victim girl is also present before this Court. She would submit that there was a love affair between herself and the first petitioner and without understanding the consequences she eloped with the first petitioner and would also submit that after attaining majority, a marriage has been performed due to intervention of elders in both families.

[case 956]
The Present appeal is filed against the conviction and sentence passed by the learned Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Namakkal, against the appellant in Spl. C. C. No. 3 of 2016. The victim child (P. W. 1) was 16 years of age and was studying XI standard. The appellant, father of the victim child, forced himself upon her and continued to have penetrative sex. The victim's ordeal was revealed when she called the child helpline. Upon investigation, the appellant was charged under the POCSO Act. The trial court sentenced the appellant to life imprisonment and imposed a fine. The appellant contended that there was an inordinate delay in lodging the complaint, while the prosecution maintained that their charges were substantiated. The High Court discussed the opportunity provided to the appellant for cross-examination, ultimately dismissing the appeal and upholding the conviction.

[case 957]
The recent ruling in the case of X Juvenile vs. State of U. P. highlights the importance of procedural fairness and the role of social investigation reports under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. In this case, the court criticized the Juvenile Justice Board's dismissal of the bail application as it failed to consider the social nuances of the juvenile's background adequately. The court observed that despite the gravity of the charges against him, including robbery and murder, the law generally guides towards granting bail unless specific reasonable grounds are established that support the decision to deny it. Furthermore, the court addressed the need to balance the juvenile's right to rehabilitation against public safety concerns, stating that the absence of significant logic or evidence in denying bail points to a miscarriage of justice.

[case 958]
The victim, in the instant case, is a child aged around four and a half years. This age finds reflection in the school record (Ex. PW-3/A) where her date of birth has been described to be 24. 10. 2008. As per admission register (Ex. PW-3/C), 'X' got admission in Sarvodaya Kanya Vidhyalaya, Rajokari, New Delhi, on 28. 03. 2013. PW-3 (Satya Pal), Lab Assistant, Sarvodaya Kanya Vidhyalaya, Rajokari, New Delhi, has proved the entry in admission form (Ex. PW-3/A). Date of birth recorded in school records at the time of X's admission is not under challenge. No sound reasons prevail to disbelieve the date of birth as it was also recorded in the certificate issued by MCD (Ex. PW-3/B). The appellant did not suggest any other date of birth. 'X's parents never anticipated such an unfortunate incident to happen in future to manipulate her age at the time of getting admission in the school.

[case 959]
Pratiksha Maya W/O Dashrathsinh Maya vs State Of Gujarat on 23 December, 2021. This petition has been filed under section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for quashing and setting aside the first information report bearing C. R. No. I - 139 of 2018 registered with 'A' Division Himmatnagar Police Station, District Sabarkantha, for the offences punishable under Sections 363 and 366 of the Indian Penal Code and under Section 11(iv) of the POCSO Act, and the proceedings initiated in pursuance thereof. The complainant, who is Rajaram Shantaram Nathare, states that after his consent, his daughter has married with the petitioner and does not want to continue with the FIR. The court has the power to quash proceedings if continuing them serves no purpose due to a settlement. However, cases of serious crimes like rape and murder cannot be quashed even with victim's consent.

[case 960]
This legal matter based before the Karnataka High Court involves a high-profile political figure facing serious allegations of sexual assault against a minor under the POCSO Act. The litigation revolves around the examination of whether proper procedures were observed in taking cognizance of the complaint against the accused. Various judgments indicate that a magistrate must not only be able to act on police reports or complaints but must also ensure the existence of sufficient grounds for the initiation of proceedings. The absence of a detailed written order elucidating the grounds for cognizance could jeopardize the legal proceedings, leading to potential miscarriage of justice, especially in sensitive cases involving minors. Such protocol ensures that wrongful accusations are minimized, and that genuine victims are afforded the protections and rights under the law.

[case 961]
In the case of Reference vs Ramnath Kewat @ Bhursoo Kewat, the Madhya Pradesh High Court addressed serious charges of rape and murder involving a minor girl aged 12 years. The appellant was convicted based on strong evidence, including testimony, physical evidence, and DNA reports, leading to a sentence of death by hanging accompanied by a fine. The legal proceedings raised important issues regarding the age of the victim, the credibility of evidence, and the application of the POCSO Act, which enhances protections for minors against sexual offenses. Various witnesses including family and medical experts corroborated the details of the crime. The court also considered the implications of capital punishment, the definitions of special circumstances, and the societal need for justice, reflecting on the balance between punitive measures and rehabilitation opportunities.

[case 962]
KARNATAKA HIGH COURT - 18 JUNE, 2018 - The petitioner has approached this court seeking quashing of the Special CC No. 194/2015 on the file of the II Addl. District and Sessions Judge, Bengaluru Rural District for the offence punishable under Section 376 of IPC and also u/s. 6, 8, 10 & 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act (POCSO Act). During the pendency of this petition, the petitioner and the second respondent, who is the mother of the victim girl, have filed a compromise petition stating that the matter has been compromised. The mother alleged that her husband has been sexually harassing their twin daughters, aged about 5  years. After investigating, the police submitted a charge sheet. However, reports from NIMHANS indicated that the children showed no signs of abuse. The court may quash the charges if compromise is in the children's best interest.

[case 963]
Bombay High Court Manav Manoj Shah vs The State Of Maharashtra on 24 August, 2018. This is an application for anticipatory bail in connection with CR No. 292 of 2018, registered with Wanvadi Police station for the offences punishable under Sections 323, 504 and 506 of IPC and Sections 8 and 12 of POCSO Act, 2012. The applicant is 18 years old boy and he is a student. FIR is registered on 2nd August, 2018. He submitted that the alleged incident of sexual abuses had occurred in the year 2014 continuously for a period of six months. The applicant was aged about 14 years at the time of alleged incident. The application preferred by the applicant has been rejected by the Sessions Court. The mother of the victim indicates that the incident had adverse effects on the victim's mental condition. The interim protection is granted to the applicant till the next date of hearing.

[case 964]
In the case of X vs State of U. P. , significant attention was drawn to the stipulations of the Juvenile Justice Act, specifically the principles guiding the care and protection of children involved in legal issues. The court reviewed the implications of denying bail to the juvenile, who had been involved in a serious incident yet was recognized as being at a vulnerable age. It noted that the severity of allegations should not solely dictate bail decisions for juveniles; rather, the nature of the case, the juvenile's social background, and the potential risks associated with their release must be evaluated fairly. The court criticized the lower courts for not considering the social investigation report adequately, emphasizing that such reports offer critical insights into the juvenile's living conditions, family support structure, and overall rehabilitation potential.

[case 965]
Juvenile -X vs State Of U. P. And Another on 2 March, 2023. The Juvenile Justice Boards rejection of the juveniles bail application invoked concerns regarding his behavior and likelihood of repeating the offense. The appellate court reaffirmed this decision, emphasizing the gravity of the alleged offense despite the juvenile's claims of innocence and absence of prior criminal records. The court acknowledged the importance of maintaining public safety and the juvenile's need for rehabilitation. The case reflects how decisions about juvenile offenders require careful balancing of interests - allowing for rehabilitation while protecting community safety. The court eventually ruled in favor of the juvenile, stating that previous decisions did not adequately consider evidence that could support his release under the supervision of a guardian with appropriate conditions.

[case 966]
Lingarajn S/O Balachandrappa Pilli vs Vidya W/O Lingarajj Pilli on 5 March, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA, DHARWAD BENCH DATED THIS THE 5TH DAY OF MARCH, 2025. This petition is filed by the respondent-husband in Crl. Misc. No. 101/2023 challenging the order dated 15. 12. 2023 on the file of the Principal Judge, Family Court, Gadag. The marriage between petitioner No. 1 with the respondent was solemnized on 26. 04. 2019. It is stated that, the petitioner No. 1 and the respondent have lead happy marital life for about two years and thereafter the respondent and his family members were abusing and assaulting petitioner No. 1 to fetch additional dowry. The Family Court after considering the material on record, by its order dated 15. 12. 2023 granted maintenance of Rs. 5, 000/- per month to petitioner No. 1 and Rs. 3, 000/- per month to petitioner No. 2. The petition is dismissed.

[case 967]
Vicky Singh vs State Of Punjab on 24 September, 2018. This petition for regular bail has been filed by petitioner - Vicky Singh - an accused in FIR No. 11 dated 19. 2. 2018, under Sections 354/506 IPC and Sections 7/8 of POCSO Act, 2012, registered at Police Station City, Fazilka. The allegations against the petitioner are very grave and serious of indulging in obscene activities with a young minor girl of five years leaving a nightmarish experience for her. It is not safe for the womenfolk to venture out of their houses even. A serious law and order problem in that regard is fast emerging. The persons harassing, molesting and sexually abusing young girls need to be dealt with iron hand and no leniency can be shown to them. The trial against the petitioner is likely to be concluded in near future. Therefore, finding no merit in the petition, the same stands dismissed.

[case 968]
X vs The State Of West Bengal And Others on 31 August, 2023. The case revolves around a 13-year-old victim of aggravated penetrative sexual assault now grappling with an unwanted pregnancy. The legal proceedings illustrate the critical interplay between the MTP Act and the rights of minors, as the court deliberated on the implications of her continuing pregnancy on her mental health, which in this case included ruling that her right to terminate should be respected. It identified that the significant trauma associated with unwanted pregnancies resulting from sexual assault necessitated an immediate medical intervention to protect the minor's health. By considering both legislative limits and necessary protections for vulnerable individuals, the court reinforced the rights of minors within the context of sexual violence cases, ensuring their well-being is paramount.

[case 969]
In the COURT OF AMIT KUMAR: ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE: (NORTHWEST)01: SPECIAL COURT: POCSO, ROHINI DISTRICT COURTS: DELHI, State v/s Manoj Kumar Yadav FIR No. 632/15 U/s 354/354B IPC & Sec. 10 of POCSO Act. On 13. 09. 2015, after the DD no. 69B, ASI Suresh reached the place where the victim (child victim, hereinafter referred to as 'R') and her mother met. They informed him that on 12. 09. 2015, their neighbor Manoj Kumar caught hold of victim R from behind and kissed her, tearing her salwar. ASI Suresh got the child victim medically examined at SGM Hospital and recorded her statement. The accused was arrested, and a charge sheet was filed against him. The case went through trial where multiple witnesses provided testimonies, including a neighbor and the mother of the victim. Eventually, the court convicted the accused for aggravated sexual assault under the POCSO Act.

[case 970]
V. John Prabhakar vs / on 7 November, 2022. The Court addressed the petitions that sought further investigation following an alleged failure of the initial investigation into the caretakers of the Russ Foundation. The petitioners argued that the investigation was defective and biased, influenced by conflicts within the Child Welfare Committee. It was emphasized by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor that the victims mother has made several allegations against the Petitioners based on the claims made by the victim. The trial under the POCSO Act is ongoing, and earlier petitions for discharge were dismissed. The court reiterated that the proceedings must continue while considering the rights of the victim and the integrity of the investigation. The cases brought forth under the POCSO Act are of significant concern, and thus require diligence in investigations.

[case 971]
Delhi District Court State vs Jagat on 12 January, 2015 SC No. 42/2/13 FIR No. 142/13 PS. Dwarka Sec. 23 State VS. Jagat. In the matter of: SC No. : 42/2/2013 FIR No. : 142/13 Police: Dwarka Sec. 23 Station Under: u/s 10 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The prosecution story in brief is that on 25. 05. 2013 on receipt of DD No. 26A, Constable Satpal had gone to Santram Ka Makan, Near Government School, VPO Bharthal, Dwarka Sec. 26, New Delhi where he met complainant. .. . On the basis of complaint of mother of child victim, FIR NO. 142/13 PS Dwarka Sec. 23 was registered and matter was taken up for investigation. After completion of investigation, accused was charge sheeted for the offence u/s 10 POCSO Act. The testimony of PW1 is duly corroborated by accused himself by admitting material facts while being examined under section 313 Cr. P. C.

[case 972]
Madras High Court Suo Motu vs The Deputy Commissioner Of Police on 1 October, 2024. Petitions were filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for directing the respondents to produce the minor rape victim and her parents and set them at Liberty. The mother of the minor victim girl aged about 10 years noticed signs of abuse and sought medical help. The girl was found to have been sexually abused, and complaints were made regarding the polices treatment of both the victim and her parents. The police's actions led to claims that they harassed the family and failed to follow due procedures. The court concluded that the investigation needed to be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) due to various violations, including lack of protection for the family, delays in arresting the suspect, and procedural irregularities in handling the case.

[case 973]
The petitioner, who is arrayed as sole accused was arrested on 25/10/2021 and remanded to judicial custody for the offences punishable under sections 450, 379 IPC and section 6 r/w 5(l), 5(j)(ii) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, in Crime No. 10 of 2021 on the file of the respondent police, seeks bail. The case of the prosecution is that on 12/04/2021, when the victim girl was alone in her house, the accused trespassed into her house and forcibly committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl. The petitioner moved the bail application before the Special Court for POCSO Act Cases, Tirunelveli and that came to be dismissed on 16/12/2021, wherein it has been observed that when the first bail application was moved, the victim has stated before the court by way of reply that she will not object, if the petitioner is released on bail.

[case 974]
Having heard the learned counsel for the respective parties and also on perusal of the material on record, the points that would arise for consideration of this court that 1. Whether the Trial Court committed an error in directing the DLSA to pay the compensation and the said order suffers from its legality and correctness and whether it requires interference of this Court? 2. What order? The learned counsel for the petitioner in Crl. R. P. No. 810/2022 brought to notice of this Court paragraph 49 of the order of the Trial Court wherein the Trial Court has made an observation that with regard to awarding compensation is concerned, though the prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of the accused by producing consisting and corroborative evidence, but as per the medical evidence, it appears that she was sexually assaulted and she has suffered mental agony.

[case 975]
In the proceedings of the State Of Karnataka vs Sri Brahmadeva, the court examined various legal arguments surrounding the responsibilities of both the prosecution and the defense in child sexual abuse cases. The victim in this case was subjected to repeated abuse by her teacher, which was initially disclosed through a complex channel involving school authorities and psychological counselors. The trial court's decision to acquit the accused rested heavily on the credibility of witness statements and the absence of multiple substantiating testimonies. This verdict not only reflects upon the challenges faced by child victims and the inadequacies often present in their protection but also calls into question the broader implications of how the judicial system processes allegations of sexual abuse and the need for clear guidelines on handling such sensitive cases.

[case 976]
Karnataka High Court ruling on 7 February, 2025, involves Ravindra Chidanand Gadiwaddar and the State of Karnataka. The court examined criminal petitions regarding accusations related to the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. A private complaint was lodged claiming that the petitioners had facilitated the marriage of a minor. Subsequently, the trial court referred the case to police for investigation leading to an FIR and judicial custody of the main accused. Eventually, the complainant sought to withdraw allegations stating mutual resolution and hardship from trial proceedings. The court acknowledged the complainant's claim of being above 18 years at the time of marriage and quashed the FIR, allowing the primary accused's release, citing the potential for an abuse of process if the proceedings continued.

[case 977]
The parents of the victim filed the aforesaid application for intervention. In this application, the intervenors have specifically stated that they were in a state of shock when they realized that their daughter, the victim who was minor at the time of the incident and who happened to be a child of special needs, was about 6 months pregnant. The intervenors state that they took the victim to respondent No. 5 Sanstha and, thereafter, they gathered the courage to approach the police for registration of FIR. According to the intervenors, the police did take prompt action by registering the FIR and initiating investigation into the matter. The intervenors have then referred to the manner in which the police identified the person who could be said to be responsible for the said incident and the fact that blood samples were collected and they were sent for DNA tests.

[case 978]
Bachpan Bachao Andolan vs State Of Kerala on 17 November, 2021. The petitioners include the Bachpan Bachao Andolan, a charitable society, and a program director representing the organization. Respondents include the Chief Secretary of the Government of Kerala and various departments, including social justice and child development. The petition requests information on the appointment process of members in the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights and the performance of state child protection bodies. The court emphasizes the importance of efficient functioning of child protection systems in the state in light of the guidelines set by the Supreme Court in a previous ruling. This highlights the commitment to address child welfare comprehensively, aiming to reduce case pendency and improve the quality of services for children needing care and protection.

[case 979]
On January 15, 2025, the Karnataka High Court adjudicated a petition filed by Sayyed Usman S/O Sayyedmohiddin and another regarding accusations under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. The assertion against the petitioners involved their alleged role in solemnizing the marriage of a minor boy in their capacity as President and Member of the Jamia Masjid. Following the filing of an FIR by a child welfare advocate, the petitioners argued the absence of direct involvement or intent concerning the allegations. The court reviewed the pertinent sections of the law, concluding that the lack of conclusive evidence supporting direct actions on the petitioners' part warranted the quashing of the proceedings, as continuing would infringe upon their rights. This ruling underscores the critical examination of accusations against those in distinguished community roles.

[case 980]
The petitioner has specifically stated in the writ petition that he was informed by two villagers that the aforesaid heinous incident of rape of minor girl, who is a special needs child, had taken place and that the accused were still at large. According to the petitioner, he was informed that the person responsible for the said act was the son of an influential person and that no FIR was lodged due to the fact that the family of the minor was put under pressure and coercion. The petitioner claims that he was told that the minor girl was aged 17 years and 6 months at the time of the incident and that she was now about 6 months pregnant because of the said sexual assault. Thereafter, it is claimed by the petitioner that he approached the Respondent police station on 11. 08. 2020 and demanded that a FIR be registered but no prompt action was taken in that regard.

[case 981]
Madhya Pradesh High Court case on March 22, 2022. In this case, Ajit is charged with sexual offenses against a minor under the POCSO Act. The court deliberates on the concept of consent for a minor under 18 years of age. The victim's age is established, and her claim of consent is contested. The court reviews the definitions under POCSO and implications on judicial proceedings for child protection. It emphasizes the necessity of offering children a protective environment against abuse and the legal perspectives on consent involving minors. In light of the preceding case laws, the discussion navigates the complex intersection of societal maturity expectations, legal definitions, and child protection laws. Ultimately, the court finds sufficient material against the applicant for conviction, prioritizing the protective intentions of the POCSO Act in its ruling.

[case 982]
In a high-profile case at the Karnataka High Court, a petitioner named Shivaraj Urf Karitol, aged 25, filed a bail application under Section 439 of the Criminal Procedure Code in Crime No. 2/2024. This case stems from an incident where the complainant, Sri Shiddalingappa, alleged that he was assaulted by five unknown individuals, leading to significant injuries and the abduction of his minor daughter Renuka. The background reveals a complicated family environment, including the complainant's alleged previous assault on his wife and the involvement of neighbors who intervened after the incident. The Court, after evaluating the arguments from both the petitioner's counsel and the government pleader opposing the bail due to the serious nature of the injuries involved, granted bail with certain conditions including personal bond and no tampering with witnesses.

[case 983]
Jitendra Shakya vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 19 July, 2023
Shri Atul Gupta-Advocate for appellant.
Shri S. S. Kushwaha-Public Prosecutor for respondent - State.
Heard on I. A. No. 1743/2023, which is first application under Section 389(1) of Cr. P. C. moved on behalf of sole appellant - Jitendra Shakya seeking suspension of sentence and grant of bail.
Present appellant stood convicted under Section 450 of IPC and sentenced to undergo 05 years RI with fine of Rs. 500/-, under Section 328 of IPC and sentenced to undergo 05 years RI with fine of Rs. 500/- and under Sections 5(G) and 6 of POCSO Act with life imprisonment with fine of Rs. 5, 000/- with default stipulation vide judgment of conviction and order of sentence dated 28. 09. 2021 passed by the fifth Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge (POCSO Act), Bhind, (Madhya Pradesh) in Sessions Trial No. 122/2019.

[case 984]
Shareef @ Muhammed Shareef vs State Of Kerala on 8 November, 2018. This application is filed under Section 438 of the Cr. P. C. The applicant is accused in Crime No. 200 of 2018 registered under Sections 354(iii), 509 of IPC and Sections 11(iii) and 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The victim is a minor girl in the VIII Standard, and the accused is a known individual to her family. During the incident on 4. 8. 2018, the victim reported that inappropriate gestures were made towards her after she returned home from playing. The victim claims this is not the first occurrence. The court has to evaluate the previous incidents of false accusations against the accused as part of its consideration for bail. The court stresses the importance of investigation process while allowing bail if certain conditions are met to protect the victim.

[case 985]
The petitioner herein is the accused in Crime No. 409 of 2016 of the Maloor Police Station, registered under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code, and under Sections 7, 8 and 9(m) read with Section 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He seeks regular bail under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The application filed by him for regular bail was dismissed by the learned Special Judge for the trial of offences under POCSO Act, Thalassery, on 28. 7. 2016. The petitioner has been in judicial custody since 19. 7. 2016. The victim of offence in this case is a small girl aged 9 years. The prosecution case is that at about 6. 00 p. m. On 18. 07. 2016, the petitioner sexually assaulted the said victim at his flour mill. This crime was registered by the Police on a complaint made by the mother of the victim on the date of incident itself.

[case 986]
Arun Kumar vs State Rep By on 2 February, 2022. This Criminal Original Petition has been filed to call for the records in Spl. S. C. No. 36 of 2019, on the file of the Special Court for Exclusive Trial of cases under POCSO Act, Cuddalore. The case of the prosecution is that the defacto complainant is the father of the victim. The victim studied Nursing course and she was going for training in Government Hospital, Panruti. On 28. 07. 2018, the victim girl had gone for training, but she did not return back home. Despite search was made in relatives house and other places, the 3rd respondent could not able to secure. The 2nd respondent was given an information that his daughter had love affair with one Arunkumar and they are staying in the house of the 4th petitioner. On receiving the information, the 2nd respondent went there and the victim girl alone was there.

[case 987]
Gaurav Singh @ Gaurav vs State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Deptt. Of. .. on 24 February, 2025. The legal procedure surrounding Gaurav Singh's bail application brings attention to key components within the POCSO Act and related laws. The court weighs serious accusations against him while noting discrepancies in the claims lodged against him by the prosecutrix, who clearly states that she has implicated no allegations against him. The deliberation culminates in the court granting Gaurav bail but emphasizes conditions designed to ensure his presence during trials, demonstrating the fine balance needed between the rights of the accused and the judicial responsibilities of the state to protect people. The final judgment reflects critical considerations for ensuring that both victim rights and defendant rights are effectively honored within the legal framework.

[case 988]
The first respondent police registered a case against the 3rd respondent/accused herein in Crime No. 5 of 2016 for the offence under Section 354 (A) of IPC and Sections 9 (f), 9(m), 9(k) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. After completing the investigation, they filed a charge sheet before the learned Sessions Judge, which framed charges. The court below acquitted the 3rd respondent and failed to appreciate the evidence of the victim child, who is a mentally retarded and physically challenged child. The victim conveyed the incident via sign language to her mother, who subsequently informed authorities. Despite the traumatic experiences and the unique challenges faced by the victim, the trial court's approach led to acquittal due to insufficient reliability on the victim's testimony.

[case 989]
Mr. X- Juvenile vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 4 April, 2023
HON'BLE SANJAY KUMAR PACHORI, J.
1. Heard Sri Shivam Yadav, Advocate holding brief of Sri Rajesh Yadav, learned counsel for the revisionist, Sri Ghanshyam Kesarwani, learned A. G. A. for the State and perused the material available on record. Despite service of notice upon opposite party No. 2, none appears on his behalf. ..
25. Before imparting the judgment, it is necessary to point out that the identity of the juvenile in the present matter has been disclosed in the impugned judgment and order which violates the right to privacy and confidentiality of the juvenile and against the law laid down by the Supreme Court in Shilpa Mittal v. NCT Delhi, (2020) 2 SCC 787 wherein, it was held that the identity of the juvenile shall not be disclosed.
Dated: 4. 4. 2023
(Sanjay Kumar Pachori, J. )

[case 990]
The learned Public Prosecutor, on instructions, submitted that the crime was registered on the basis of the statement of a minor child. The statement of the child was recorded under Section 164 of the Cr. P. C by the learned Magistrate and the allegations of sexual abuse were reiterated by her. It is submitted that the allegations being grave and the investigation being in the initial stages, this Court would not be justified in quashing the proceedings. The learned Public Prosecutor would also place reliance on Section 29 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and would contend that when a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under Sections 3, 5, 7 and 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case may be unless the contrary is proved.

[case 991]
Vivek Tiwari vs The State Of Bihar on 8 February, 2024. .. Chandra Shekhar Jha. .. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL APPEAL (SJ) No. 3293 of 2023 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -16 Year-2019 Thana- NATWAR District- Rohtas ====================================================== Vivek Tiwari, son of Dhanjee Tiwari, resident of Gopalpur, P. S. - Kargahar, District- Rohtas. .. . Appellant Versus The State of Bihar. .. Respondent ====================================================== Appearance: For the Appellant/s: Mr. Ajay Kumar Thakur, Advocate. .. The prosecution examined altogether eight witnesses. .. the learned trial court convicted the appellant/convict under Section 376/506 of the I. P. C. and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act. .. The impugned judgment of conviction dated 12. 04. 2023 and order of sentence dated 18. 04. 2023 is quashed and set aside.

[case 992]
Sandeep S/O. Shivappa Kakhandaki vs The State Of Karnataka on 21 February, 2025. The prosecution alleges that accused No. 1 is the husband, accused Nos. 2 and 3 are the parents-in-law, accused No. 4 is the brother-in-law, and accused Nos. 5 and 6 are relatives. They allegedly subjected the de facto complainant to both mental and physical cruelty and also demanded money from her parental home. The marriage between accused No. 1 and the de facto complainant was solemnized on 30. 05. 2014. The de facto complainant had previously filed a complaint making similar allegations. However, the complaint was closed, stating that there was no mutual understanding between the parties. The said complaint was closed on 06. 08. 2018, while the impugned FIR was lodged later. In light of the facts, the continuation of criminal proceedings would be an abuse of the process of law.

[case 993]
Mohan S/O. Dewaji Bawiskar (In Jail) vs The State Of Maharashtra Thr. The. .. on 26 April, 2018. .. The appellant is convicted for offence punishable under Section 376 2(i) of the Indian Penal Code and is directed to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1000/-. .. The appellant is also convicted for offence punishable under Section 506 of the Indian Penal Code and is directed to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 6 months and to pay a fine of Rs. 500/-. .. The appellant is also convicted for offence punishable under Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short, 'the POCSO Act') and is directed to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 8 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1000/-. .. The victim, in the present crime, was studying in 2nd Standard in a school known as 'Zilla Parishad Primary School, Kharbi'.

[case 994]
Selvaraj vs The State By on 28 July, 2021. This criminal appeal is directed against the judgment and order of conviction and sentence dated 28. 03. 2018 passed by the Sessions Judge, Mahalir Neethimandram (Fast Track Mahila Court), Tiruppur in Spl. S. C. No. 15 of 2016. The prosecution case is as under: Since this is a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short the POCSO Act), for the sake of anonymity, we are referring to the victim as X. Her date of birth is 04. 12. 1997 (vide Ex. P1). .. She conveyed this to her aunt-Shanti (P. W. 5); she was taken to KMCH Hospital, Erode, where the doctors examined X and stated that she was pregnant. .. On 06. 03. 2013, 'X' gave a complaint (Ex. P1), based on which, Ramadevi (P. W. 7), Sub-Inspector of Police, registered a case in Crime No. 16 of 2013 under Sections 376(1) and 506(I) IPC. ..

[case 995]
Ankit Singh Sikarwar vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 21 July, 2023. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. The instant bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant, Ankit Singh Sikarwar, with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 406 of 2022, under Sections 363, 366, 376(3), 328 IPC and section 5/6 POCSO Act Police Station Bidhnu, District- Kanpur Nagar. There is allegation against the applicant of abduction of minor girl with intent to marry, commission of offence of rape, intoxicating besides offence under section 5/6 POCSO Act. The victim is aged about 16 years. The applicant is also her classmate. The victim eloped with the applicant and has not made an allegation of abduction or rape against him. The court is required to consider whether the implication under POCSO Act is justified given the victim's consent and behavior.

[case 996]
G. Pappuraj vs The Chairman on 4 January, 2018. This writ petition is about the denial of appointment to G. Pappuraj based on allegations of severe criminal activity under the POCSO Act. The court emphasized that the character and antecedents are crucial for applicants seeking positions in the police service. The petitioner, despite being acquitted, faced disqualification due to suppression of material facts regarding his criminal history, which he failed to disclose during his application. The court referenced Rule 14(b)(ii) of Tamil Nadu Special Police Subordinate Service Rules, asserting that any applicant must demonstrate good character and not be involved in pending criminal cases. The court ultimately upheld the decision to deny the petitioner suitability for police recruitment, highlighting the serious nature of the allegations made against him.

[case 997]
Kumar @ Kumaresan vs State on 21 August, 2017 The victim boy is the son the defacto complainant. On 17. 11. 2016, the victim boy went to his grandmothers house and stayed there. Next day morning at about 9. 00 a. m. , he went to school by a mini bus. After the school was over, he did not reach back to his parents house. On the way to his home he got down at Erode bus stand and was urinating behind the bus. The accused who came there in a motorcycle took the victim boy by telling that he would drop him at his house. As the accused took a different road, the victim boy questioned him. The accused threatened the victim boy and took him to a house in a place called Otta methai. During night times, the accused confined the victim inside a room and compelled him to have oral sex with him. He also committed anus- penile penetrative sexual offence with the boy.

[case 998]
Vivek Tiwari vs The State Of Bihar on 8 February, 2024. .. Chandra Shekhar Jha. .. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL APPEAL (SJ) No. 3293 of 2023 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -16 Year-2019 Thana- NATWAR District- Rohtas ====================================================== Vivek Tiwari, son of Dhanjee Tiwari, resident of Gopalpur, P. S. - Kargahar, District- Rohtas. .. . Appellant Versus The State of Bihar. .. Respondent ====================================================== Appearance: For the Appellant/s: Mr. Ajay Kumar Thakur, Advocate. .. The appellate court noted that there were inconsistencies and lack of evidence supporting the accusation against the appellant. .. . The appellant/convict is acquitted of the charges levelled against him. He is directed to be set at liberty forthwith unless his detention is required in any other case.

[case 999]
In the case of Sanjay Hemantbhai Pandit vs State Of Gujarat on 13 October, 2023, the Gujarat High Court examined an application for regular bail under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The applicant, Sanjay Hemantbhai Pandit, was accused of serious crimes under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the POCSO Act related to sexual offences against a minor. The Court considered the arguments from both the applicant's lawyer and the Additional Public Prosecutor representing the State. The court ultimately decided to grant bail based on several considerations, including the duration of time the applicant had already spent in jail, the fact that the investigation was complete and a chargesheet was filed, delays in the registration of the FIR, and the lack of substantial evidence against the applicant at this stage of the proceedings.

[case 1000]
On 16. 11. 2018, the learned Family Court directed that these custody arrangements would continue until disposal of the main petition. Ms. Vohra, learned ASC appearing for the respondent, submits that the petitioner being aggrieved by the order dated 16. 11. 2018, had preferred MAT. APP. (F. C. ) 312/2018, which was dismissed by the Division Bench as meritless vide order dated 26. 03. 2019. It appears that subsequently, on 23. 04. 2019, the father of the child had moved an application before the Family Court praying inter alia for the permanent custody of the child. According to the petitioner, the learned Family Court wrongly passed an order on 03. 05. 2019, granting the full custody of the minor to the father while granting the petitioner/mother, visitation rights to see the child on every Saturday between 3. 00 to 5. 00 pm in the visitation room of the Court.

[case 1001]
Sanjay Alias Machhi vs State Of Haryana on 19 September, 2018. This petition for regular bail has been filed by petitioner - Sanjay alias Machhi- an accused in FIR No. 459 dated 17. 5. 2018, under Sections 341, 354-A, 354-D, 506 IPC (Section 8 of POCSO Act added later on), registered with Police Station Chandni Bagh, District Panipat. The facts indicate that the victim, a 10th-grade student, reported being stalked and threatened by the accused. The need for precautionary measures to combat increasing child abuse incidents is articulated in the ruling. The petitioner, having committed acts intending to outrage the victim's modesty, poses a risk to her safety. The court emphasizes that leniency should not be extended to individuals accused of such offenses, especially given the likely impact of granting bail on the trial process and the victim's safety.

[case 1002]
Ananth vs Jenmarakkini on 30 January, 2024. This Civil Miscellaneous Appeal has been filed by the appellant/petitioner/husband, challenging the order passed by the learned Principal District Judge, at Thanjavur in I. D. O. P. No. 140 of 2012 dated 19. 04. 2018. Ananth married Jenmarakkini, and initially, their relationship flourished until the abuse began. The line of physical and emotional degradation from his spouse led him to seek legal dissolution of the marriage, which was met with significant resistance and ultimately dismissed in court. This experience left Ananth questioning the structural integrity of the legal protections available for individuals facing domestic abuse. He desires not only to resolve his marriage issue but also aims to advocate for better legal frameworks that would provide adequate support for those experiencing such violence.

[case 1003]
In the case of Xxx vs State Of Kerala on 1 July, 2022, the accused faced trial for the offence punishable under Section 9(n) r/w 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act). The victim was a minor girl aged 15 years at the time of the incident, where the accused, her father, sexually assaulted her multiple times. The prosecution provided evidence that confirmed the abuse, including testimony from the victim and her mother. The court found the accused guilty and sentenced him to five years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 25, 000. The accused challenged the conviction, claiming the evidence was uncorroborated and there was a delay in reporting the crime. However, the court reaffirmed the conviction based on the weight of the victim's testimony and the unique circumstances surrounding delays in sexual assault cases.

[case 1004]
Khusbu Rai vs The State Of Bihar on 29 August, 2022. The petitioners seek regular bail, who are in custody in connection with Mufasil P. S. Case No. 438 of 2019 (Special POCSO Case No. 103 of 2019) registered for the offences punishable under Sections 376(A)(B)/120B/34 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 6/10 of the POCSO Act. The prosecution case is based on a written complaint with accusation that five years old female child was adopted by United States of America based couple from the specialized adoption agency Ecovic Adoption Centre, Gaya, Bihar. After adoption, the adoptive parents found some abnormality in the adopted child and on examination, the adopted child was found sexually harassed. A letter was received from American Embassy making allegation of the victim being sexually abused and on the said basis, the present case was initiated.

[case 1005]
The prosecution case, in brief, is that appellant Ramu and Smt. Janak Dulari (P. W. 1), mother of victim (P. W. 3) were resident of village Surajpurwa Lalpur, Rajpur, Police Station-Ram Sanehighat, District Barabanki. On 25. 07. 2013, Smt. Janak Dulari (P. W. 1) had gone to pull the paddy seedling (beran) by leaving her daughter (victim), aged about eight years and son Sumit, aged about three years at her house. Meanwhile, at about 9: 00 a. m. , appellant came at her house, enticed her daughter (victim) by alluring to give her cashew biscuit and took her to his mini rice mill (palesar) where he gave biscuit to her and took her into a room of the said rice mill, laid her on earth, undressed her, inserted his finger into the vagina of victim and also raped her. Thereafter, he threatened her not to tell about the incident to anyone, otherwise he would kill her.

[case 1006]
In the case of Ashok vs Public Health Department, the petitioner, aged 17 years, sought a writ to terminate her pregnancy as it was a result of criminal actions that violate her rights. Medical opinions confirmed her pregnancy and highlighted the potential for serious mental health impacts, reinforcing her plea under the provisions of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act. The court acknowledged that even in these circumstances, the law allows for termination of pregnancy, particularly when mental health concerns arise due to trauma. The ruling stated that two registered medical practitioners must affirm the medical necessity of termination, signaling the importance of legal procedures regarding rights of the pregnant minor. The judgment also highlights the need for prompt action in protecting minors from extended trauma after sexual offences.

[case 1007]
The mother of the victim has approached this Court seeking following relief: 'Your Lordships may be pleased to quash and set-aside the order passed in Criminal Misc. Application No. 3570 of 2023 and thereby be pleased to issue appropriate writ or order or direction to the respondent authority to terminate the pregnancy of the petitioner who is aged 13 years, at the earliest, as the same being in the best interest of the victim, considering her very young age, physical health and incident of rape causing grave injury to her mental health and further be pleased to direct the respondent no. 3 to hand over, in scientific manner, the tissues drawn from the fetus for DNA identification to the Police Inspector, Malaviyanagar Police Station, Rajkot City for onward transmission of the same to the concerned Forensic Science Laboratory, interest of justice.

[case 1008]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD, LUCKNOW BENCH. Juvenile X, Thru. His Uncle vs State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Deptt. Of. .. on 7 March, 2025. Case: - CRIMINAL REVISION No. - 1319 of 2024. The revision petition has been filed under Section 102 of Juvenile Justice(Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 to set aside order dated 20. 9. 2024, passed by Special Judge, POCSO Act/Addl. Sessions Judge, Court No. 15, Hardoi in Criminal Appeal No. 43 of 2024 and order dated 13. 9. 2024, passed by Juvenile Justice Board, Hardoi in bail application No. 53/2024 arising out of case crime No. 238 of 2024 under sections 302, 323, 504, 506, 109, 120-B, 34 I. P. C. , P. S. Pali, district Hardoi, with a further prayer to release the revisionist on bail. The revisionist is 16 years old and not named in the FIR, highlighting procedural oversight in the lower courts.

[case 1009]
In all the impugned orders passed by the learned Special Judges, Children's Court, the appeals were dismissed on the following grounds: (i) The CICLs were involved in committing heinous offence; and (ii) Secondly, the Social Investigation Report filed by the Probation Officers state that the CICLs were grown up in their respective families where their parents failed to control them from mixing up with the anti-socials and criminals of the locality. There is every chance that if they are released on bail, they will again befriend with the criminals and goons. Parents and natural guardians of the petitioners will not be able to control them and their release is likely to bring them into the association with the known criminals and they expose them to moral, physical and psychological danger or the persons released would defeat the ends of justice.

[case 1010]
W. P. No. 325 of 2024 IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS DATED: 05. 02. 2024 CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE N. ANAND VENKATESH W. P. No. 325 of 2024 Neela. .. Petitioner Vs. 1. The Superintendent of Police, Villupuram, Villupuram District. 2. The State rep. by The Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Thirukoilur, Villupuram District. 3. Arulraj @ Arulmurugan 4. Krishnan. .. Respondents Prayer: Writ Petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for the issue of writ of Mandamus directing the 1st and 2nd respondent to give adequate police protection to the petitioner and the daughter Priyadharsini (victim), till the disposal of the case in Spl. S. C. No. 02/2021 on the file of the Special Court for POCSO Act cases Villupuram pursuant to the representation dated 01. 04. 2023.

[case 1011]
State vs Anil Chaurasiya on 25 August, 2015. The present case was registered on the statement of complainant Manikant Jha who alleged that he used to run a betel shop outside his house at E3/699, Gali No. 16, Sonia Vihar, Delhi and accused was residing in his neighbourhood. He alleged that on 28. 4. 2013, the accused came there in drunken condition and threatened him that if he did not let him marry his daughter, he would abduct her. Based on these allegations, a case was registered under IPC and POCSO Act. The accused was arrested and the investigation continued. Various witnesses were examined, including the victim, who made statements detailing the harassment and threats faced. However, contradictions in testimonies arose, and it was concluded that the victim was not present during the alleged incident, leading to the acquittal of the accused.

[case 1012]
The learned Counsel for the appellant/accused, taking this Court through the evidence on record, namely the evidence of P. W. 1, the evidence of P. W. 3, the victim child and the evidence of both the Doctors, who examined the victim child as well as the appellant/accused, would submit that this is a case in which there is absolutely no corroborating material for the version of the child for committing the penetrative sexual assault by way of oral penetration. From both the Doctors as well as the medical report, it is very clear that there was absolutely no external injury on the child. If the occurrence had taken place in the manner as described by the victim child witness, upon examination of the victim child, definitely the injury on the cheek and the other injuries mentioned by P. W. 1 would have been found by the Doctor, P. W. 8, on his examination.

[case 1013]
Shubham Kumar vs The State Of Bihar on 27 January, 2025. In Criminal Revision No. 107/2024, the Petitioner was arrested in connection with DRI/LZU/PRU/ 718(ii)/ENQ-26/2022 under Section 20(b)(ii)(c), 25, 29 of NDPS Act for transporting certain packets of Ganja in a truck. On the date of commission of the alleged offence, he was aged about 16 years and a few months. It is alleged that the Petitioner was falsely implicated in the aforesaid case. In Criminal Revision No. 160/2024, the Petitioner was arrested in connection with Kolwari (jogsar) P. S. Case No. 796 of 2023 registered under Section 376D/120B/34 of IPC and Section 4/6 of the POCSO Act for committing the offence of rape upon a minor aged 15 years. On the date of commission of the alleged offence, he was aged about 17 years 8 months, and a few days. He has been in custody since 28. 08. 2023.

[case 1014]
Sri Mohammed Harisnalapad vs State Of Karnataka on 30 August, 2024. DATED: 30TH DAY OF AUGUST, 2024. BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR JUSTICE M. NAGAPRASANNA. CRIMINAL PETITION NO. 8923 OF 2024. The petitioner is before this Court calling in question the proceeding in C. C. No. 6231/2023 pending on the file of the XLII Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Bengaluru. Section 75 of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act states that whoever having actual charge of, or control over, a child, causes the child unnecessary mental or physical suffering, shall be punishable with imprisonment for up to three years. The petitioner posed for a picture with children who were neither under his care nor control, leading the court to quash the FIR against him, highlighting the issue of baseless allegations against individuals in charge of children in significant scenarios.

[case 1015]
By the instant appeal, the appellant Chander Singh challenges the impugned judgment dated 17th December, 2013 whereby he has been convicted for the offence defined under Section 9(k), punishable under Section 10 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2002 (in short the POCSO Act) in FIR No. 80/2013 registered at PS Mangol Puri and the order on sentence dated 18th December, 2013 directing him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six years and fine of `5, 000/- in default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of three months. The prosecution case in brief is that on February 09, 2013 at about 7. 28 PM, PW12 HC Laxman Singh was handed-over DD No. 18, Ex. PW-12/A informing that a boy was kidnapping a girl and the said boy was apprehended by the caller at K Block complex.

[case 1016]
The case heard through Video Conference involves a criminal appeal filed by the appellant who is currently in custody. The convicted accused is appealing against the judgment in S. C. No. 199 of 2011 dated 10. 05. 2017 from the Fast Track Mahila Court, finding him guilty for offenses including abduction and sexual assault under IPC sections. It is defined that the victim child, while playing, was kidnapped under false pretenses and subjected to sexual violence. Evidence from multiple witnesses, including medical reports, supports the charge. The court concluded that despite the absence of independent witnesses, the evidence of the victim is credible and reliable, establishing the accused's guilt. The appellant, through legal counsel, contends ambiguities in evidence and procedural delays but the court upholds the convictions and sentencing as just.

[case 1017]
This writ petition has been filed by U. Kalpana regarding her daughter, who was victimized under the POCSO Act. After the accused was convicted, no order for compensation was made. The writ seeks to compel the child protection authorities to address this oversight by considering the petitioner's representation. The court emphasizes the need to uphold the rights of the victim and respond to the petitioner's plea for compensation.
For Petitioner: Mr. Shaikh Mehrunisa
For Respondents: Various Government Representations.
Prayer: to direct the respondents to grant compensation to the petitioner's daughter in accordance with the Tamil Nadu government's compensation scheme for victims.

[case 1018]
Bachu Singh vs State Of Rajasthan Through Pp on 1 March, 2017. This is third application preferred under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 for grant of regular bail to the petitioner in a case arising out of First Information Report bearing No. 229/2016 registered at Police Station Railway Colony, Kota for commission of offence punishable under Section 354 of Indian Penal Code and under Sections 7/8, 11 and 12 of the POCSO Act. The earlier petitions for bail were denied by the court due to the serious nature of the allegations against the petitioner, who is accused of sexually exploiting a child aged eight years. The court noted that cases of child abuse by individuals in fiduciary relationships are on the rise. As a result, no grounds were found sufficient to grant bail, and the court directed the trial to proceed expeditiously.

[case 1019]
Both the cases are registered based on the statement of the two kids of the petitioner's son. The allegation is that the petitioner, who is the grandfather of these two kids sexually abused the children in 2016 and 2018. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned Public Prosecutor. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that this is a false case foisted against the petitioner. The learned Public Prosecutor opposed the bail application, asserting that serious allegations are there against the petitioner from the children and custodial interrogation is necessary. Considering the aged status of the petitioner, the court has allowed the bail application on stringent conditions. The court acknowledges the need for social distancing during the COVID-19 pandemic and cites that bail is generally the rule rather than the exception.

[case 1020]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA KALABURAGI BENCH DATED THIS THE 01ST DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2018 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE G. NARENDAR CRIMINAL PETITION No. 200033/2018 Between: Yallaling S/o Shankerappa Mailari, Age: 35 years, Occ: Agriculture, R/o Martoor Village, Tq. Chittapur, Dist. Kalaburagi-585 228. .. . Petitioner (By Sri. Ustad Sadath Hussain, Advocate) And: The State Through Shahabad Town Police Station Tq. Chittapur, Dist. Kalaburagi Now Represented by Special Public Prosecutor, High Court of Karnataka Kalaburagi Bench-585 103. .. Respondent (By Sri. Mallikarjun Sahukar, HCGP). .. It is the case of the petitioner that the very fact that the victim did not raise any protests or did not cry out for any help is sufficient material. .. He would further contend that the medical opinion prima facie shows fabrication of the allegation of rape.

[case 1021]
In Raju Yallappa vs The State Of Karnataka, the appellant was convicted for committing rape on a minor who belonged to a Scheduled Tribe, reflecting the serious nature of offenses categorized under the POCSO Act and SC/ST Act. During the proceedings, a series of testimonies were presented from multiple witnesses, including the victim and her family. The trial court evaluated the evidence surrounding the sexual assault and determined the credibility of the accounts presented, ultimately leading to a conviction. The judgment underscored the necessity of preserving child victims' testimonies within legal frameworks and highlighted mechanisms that facilitate victim assistance throughout the judicial process. The appeal resulted in certain verdict adjustments but reinforced the significant legal protections available under child abuse legislation.

[case 1022]
Smt. M L Chandraprabha vs State Of Karnataka on 20 April, 2018. This case presents important legal considerations regarding child protection laws in India, particularly under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). The petitioner, Smt. M L Chandraprabha, a domestic help, was accused of sexual assault against a 1 year old child. The allegations arose when the mother of the child found injuries on her child after returning home. The petitioner was arrested and initially denied bail. The Karnataka High Court examined the case and noted that there were no eyewitness accounts to corroborate the assault. Considering the petitioner's age (65 years) and the lack of direct evidence, the court granted her bail with specific conditions, emphasizing the necessity for proper legal proceedings in safeguarding the welfare of the child.

[case 1023]
Sri Vivek Shetty and Sri Bharathkumar Kateel, both petitioners, find themselves facing legal challenges following the registration of multiple criminal complaints against them, including charges of trespass and intimidation. They initially obtained anticipatory bail, but this was later cancelled upon the State's request due to their alleged involvement in further criminal activities. Their legal counsel argues for the restoration of their bail, citing their right to personal liberty and the lack of substantial grounds for its cancellation. The High Court reviews the circumstances surrounding the cancellation of bail under Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. and weighs the principles outlined in case law regarding bail cancellation, emphasizing the importance of ensuring that public interest and justice are upheld while respecting individual liberties.

[case 1024]
In the case of State of Karnataka vs Manjunath @ Manju dated 12 November 2021, the accused is facing multiple charges under the POCSO Act for allegedly sexually abusing tender aged female children. The prosecution filed for permission to examine a renowned child psychiatrist to help assess the children's cognitive ability to recall the events, as the victim children may not successfully recall the incidents due to the time that has passed since the incidents occurred. The trial court dismissed the prosecutions application, emphasizing that the prosecution should have assessed the competency of the child witness before relying on an expert opinion. This decision was based on legal standards for evaluating child witness competency and suggested that examining the victims directly might yield more relevant insights than expert testimony alone.

[case 1025]
X vs State Of U. P. And Another on 27 April, 2023. The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his father under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 against the judgment dated 28. 08. 2019 passed by Additional Sessions Judge/ Fast Track Court No. 2, Gautam Buddh Nagar in Criminal Appeal No. 63 of 2018. The revisionist has assailed the judgment and order dated 04. 08. 2018, asserting that the inquiry regarding his mental and physical capacity wasn't conducted through required professional assessments, which is a mandate under the JJ Act, 2015. The order was passed 9 months post-apprehension without a valid extension of inquiry. The Apex Court emphasized the necessity of such assessments to ensure the protection of a child's best interest in the case of Barun Chandra Thakur.

[case 1026]
The case of Shashi Bhushan Kumar @ Shashi Bhushan. .. vs The State Of Bihar on 4 April, 2024 illustrates significant challenges faced by juvenile offenders in the context of serious allegations against them. The revisions filed indicate a persistence of systemic issues where bail applications from minors are regularly denied, with many court decisions citing public safety and the gravity of allegations as justification. However, the passage draws attention to the principles embedded within the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act where allowances for the rehabilitation and growth of minors are essential components that courts need to re-evaluate in their consideration of bail requests. Factors contributing to the social circumstances of these juveniles must be given due consideration to ensure a balanced judicial approach.

[case 1027]
The victim girl was in love with A1 for about four years. Under the guise of marrying and on the false promise of marrying the victim girl, A1 committed penetrative assault upon the victim girl in various places on several times. Because of that, the victim girl has become pregnant. When she demanded marriage, A1 forced her to abort her child by taking pills. When that was brought to the notice of his father, A2 to A6, who are the family members of A1 abused the victim girl in filthy language and criminally intimidated her. Now A1 is facing the charges under section 5(1), (j), (ii) r/w 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and section 506(ii) IPC. A2 to A6 are facing the charges for the offences under sections 294(b) and 506(i)IPC. Pending trial process, the petitioner, who is arrayed as A4 moved Crl. MP No. 159 of 2021 before the trial court seeking discharge.

[case 1028]
In the case of Sri Chethan Kumar vs State Of Karnataka, the petitioners are questioning proceedings for offences punishable under child protection laws. The discussion addresses the quashing of these proceedings based on past cases where similar offences were compromised amicably among family members. The court analyses the nature of the offences, referencing multiple precedents including the POCSO Act, and recognizes that in cases where the parties involved have reached a settlement, prosecution may constitute an abuse of process of the law. Although the nature of the offences is grave, the specifics of the situation allow for the exercise of discretion towards justice. The High Court concluded that without additional complexity, the continuation of the proceeding would not serve justice and hence, quashed the FIR against the petitioners.

[case 1029]
Kunduwada Basavaraja vs The State By R. M. C Yard Police on 18 July, 2024. ..
WELCOME TO THE KARNATAKA HIGH COURT!
[Fact and details of the case]
This criminal appeal is filed under Section 378(1) & (3) of CR. P. C. praying to grant leave to appeal and set aside the judgment and order of acquittal. .. under Sections 304B read with Section 34 of IPC and SEC. 3 and 4 of D. P. ACT. In criminal appeal NO. 1118/2016, accused Nos. 1 to 3 were tried in S. C. No. 1/2014 for. .. subjected Kavitha to physical and mental cruelty demanding additional dowry and abusing that she has given birth to a physically and mentally challenged child. The accused were harassing her saying that she should kill the said child or abandon the same somewhere and she should bring money for the treatment of the child. Being unable to withstand such cruelty, she committed suicide. .. .

[case 1030]
Fr. Robin Mathew vs State Of Kerala on 28 June, 2017 The petitioner herein stands indicted as the first accused in Crime No. 152/2017 of Kelakam Police Station for offences punishable under sections 376(2)(f)(n), 370, 201, 166(A), 118, 119, 506 (i), 120(B) read with section 34 IPC and section 5 (J) (ii) (1) (P) read with section 6, 8, 9(f) read with section 10, 16 read with section 17, section 19(1) read with section 21 (1) of POCSO Act and section 32 (1) read with sections 34, 75 & 80 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. The prosecution alleges the first accused, a priest, sexually abused a 16-year-old girl in May 2016 resulting in pregnancy and the subsequent birth of a child. The impact of these events on the victim is considerable, raising questions about her mental and emotional well-being post-trauma and during trial.

[case 1031]
In the case of Wilson vs State Of Kerala on 14 November 2018, the petitioner Wilson, aged 47, was accused in Crime No. 967 of 2013, registered under Sections 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Sections 23 and 34 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. The allegations came from a 17-year-old girl, who stated that Wilson, while representing her mother in court proceedings, made inappropriate remarks and touched her. The court deliberated on the complaint that was lodged by the minor, and the serious nature of the allegations led the Public Prosecutor to argue for the continuance of the proceedings against the petitioner. The court determined that the matter of the petitioners guilt or innocence should be investigated further, dismissing Wilsons petition to quash the proceedings.

[case 1032]
The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Model Rules, 2016 set forth the guidelines for the protection and care of children in conflict with the law and those in need of care. It establishes a proper framework for the formation of Children's Committees, outlining their duties and responsibilities to ensure the welfare and rights of children are upheld. An essential component of these rules is the rehabilitation of children who have faced abuse, ensuring they receive adequate psychological and emotional support. The rules call for detailed reporting of individual care plans and regular monitoring of childrens progress. A child-friendly judicial process is to be followed, with a strong emphasis on individual assessments and case histories, ensuring that each child's unique needs and experiences are acknowledged and addressed.

[case 1033]
Xxxxxx vs State Of Kerala on 27 March, 2025. In this case, the applicant, who is the father of a minor child aged about 6 years, was convicted under the POCSO Act for severely abusing his daughter. The survivor disclosed that her father committed acts of sexual assault against her, leading to a conviction and a life sentence imposed with fines. The case highlights the evaluation of the testimonies from multiple witnesses, including medical professionals, to corroborate the minor's claims. Despite the applicant's arguments claiming inconsistencies in her story, the court found sufficient evidential support for the conviction. The applicant later sought to suspend the sentence and gain bail, but the court deemed there were no compelling reasons justifying this request, emphasizing the conviction's validity and the need for child protection.

[case 1034]
During the investigation, the statement under section 164 Cr. P. C. of the child victim was recorded. The medical examinations of the child victim and of the accused were conducted. Four samples i. e. products of conception for histo pathology, second sample of conception for DNA, two blood samples of the victim and blood sample of the accused in sealed condition were handed over to the IO and the same were sent to FSL for examination. The statement u/s 161 Cr. P. C of the witnesses were recorded. The record in respect of age of the child victim from her school was obtained. The accused was arrested and sent to jail. After completion of the investigation, the charge-sheet under section 376/506 IPC and Section 6 of POCSO Act was filed against the accused. The copy of charge-sheet was supplied to the accused in compliance of Section 207 Cr. P. C.

[case 1035]
X vs The State Of West Bengal And Others on 31 August, 2023. The petitioner is a 13-year-old girl, a survivor of aggravated penetrative sexual assault. Following the assault, the girl displayed signs of pregnancy and was taken to the hospital where a police report was initiated under the IPC and POCSO Act. During the court proceedings, it was observed that the termination of the pregnancy is necessary not only for her physical health but also for her mental well-being. The court acknowledged that proceeding with the pregnancy could cause additional psychological trauma to the minor victim and thus deemed it appropriate to facilitate a medical termination of pregnancy. It emphasized the need for urgent action considering the circumstances of the case, particularly spotlighting the inherent rights of the minor in such sensitive situations.

[case 1036]
The applicant is facing prosecution in connection with S. S. T. No782 of 2020 arising out of Case Crime No. 01 of 2020, u/s 363, 366, 376(3) I. P. C. , Section 3/4(2) of POCSO Act and Section 3(2)(5) of SC/ST Act. Submission is that since now the victim is a married lady to the applicant and after sending the applicant to jail, she has been confined in the alleged child welfare committee, which is nothing but a mockery of justice. The court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The applicant shall file an undertaking to the effect that he shall not seek any adjournment on the date fixed for evidence when the witnesses are present in court.

[case 1037]
In the case S. Amutha vs C. Manivanna Bhupathy, the Madras High Court adjudicated over the contentious issue of child witnesses amidst matrimonial disputes. The court specifically considered the fathers desire to have his son, Aravind, testify against the mother, encapsulating the legal tensions between parental requests and the requisite safeguarding of child welfare. Crucially, the court highlighted the importance of ensuring that children are not exposed to undue pressure or biases when testifying, relying heavily on Section 118 of the Evidence Act while maintaining the view that a childs emotional and psychological integrity should not be compromised during judicial processes. This case sets pivotal standards on the treatment of child witnesses in family law, showcasing the inherent need to maintain balance within legal proceedings.

[case 1038]
The revision involving Satyam Yadav accentuates the critical considerations regarding the environment conducive for the rehabilitation of juvenile offenders as articulated under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. The environment that a juvenile is placed in significantly influences their future and ability to integrate into society post-offensive behavior. The passage elucidates the necessity for ensuring that juveniles are kept away from influences that could lead them to further delinquency, as well as the importance of being housed in nurturing and supportive environments like observation homes or similar facilities. This approach underlines that the focus should be on constructive rehabilitation rather than punitive measures, reflecting a broader vision of juvenile justice aimed at reducing recidivism.

[case 1039]
Fir No. 780/13: State vs Akash @ Bawla: Ps Mangol Puri on 9 December, 2015. IN THE COURT OF VINOD YADAV: ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE: (NORTHWEST)01: ROHINI DISTRICT COURTS: DELHI. The facts of the case as born out from the record are that on 07. 12. 2013, on receipt of DD no. 31A Ex. PW6/A, PW6 HC Subhash Sharma along with Ct. Mobin Ali reached at the spot, where complainant/PW5 Mahesh Kumar produced accused Akash @ Bawla along with one sword, before him and got his statement recorded. On 06. 12. 2013, his daughter N, aged about 15 years (hereinafter referred to as 'prosecutrix) was teased by accused. On 07. 12. 2013, the same accused entered their house, assaulted the complainant with a sword when he intervened to protect his daughter. After evidence was collected, the charge sheet was filed, leading to a trial under the POCSO Act and IPC.

[case 1040]
The petitioner has been arraigned as the sole accused in Crime No. 734/2019 for offences punishable under Sections 376AB, 376(2)(i)(n) of the IPC & Sections 6 r/w 5(l)(m) of the POCSO Act, 2012, based on FIS given by the victim child. The petitioner, aged 50 years, is accused of sexually assaulting a 7-year-old girl by inserting his fingers into her genital area on various occasions between January 2018 and June 2019. Initially, the incidents went unnoticed until neighbors reported seeing the abuse, prompting the parents to investigate. The petitioner was arrested on July 15, 2019, and remains in custody. The prosecution argues against granting bail due to the serious nature of the allegations. The court eventually decided to grant bail under stringent conditions to prevent the risk of the petitioner influencing the victim or witnesses.

[case 1041]
Ananth vs Jenmarakkini on 30 January, 2024. This Civil Miscellaneous Appeal has been filed by the appellant/petitioner/husband, challenging the order passed by the learned Principal District Judge, at Thanjavur in I. D. O. P. No. 140 of 2012 dated 19. 04. 2018. The petitioner, a differently abled individual, initially enjoyed a stable marriage with Jenmarakkini, however, after the birth of their daughters, the respondent began displaying cruelty toward him. He experienced physical and emotional abuse, which he reported to authorities but ultimately faced retaliation from her family and friends, culminating in his filing for divorce. The trial court dismissed Ananths plea based on insufficient evidence to support his claims. He believes his situation as a victim of domestic abuse should have been adequately validated in the judicial process.

[case 1042]
High Court Of Karnataka vs The State Of Karnataka on 13 August, 2021. Efforts toward expediting forensic processes have been significantly underscored in the court's directives, reflecting not just operational grievances but also the systemic rights concerns permeating through the justice mechanisms. The commitment to expediting forensic processes is binding under constitutional imperatives and signals a broader commitment to judicial accountability and victim advocacy. As forensic delays continue to undermine both the right to a fair trial for accused individuals and victims seeking justice, the courts vigilance fosters a climate of legal reform obligating the state to proactively address foundational flaws. Thus, the High Court's recognition of these systemic challenges enhances the overall integrity of the justice delivery system.

[case 1043]
Smt. M L Chandraprabha vs State Of Karnataka on 20 April, 2018. The petitioner, Smt. M L Chandraprabha, aged about 65 years, sought bail under Section 439 Cr. P. C for the offence punishable under Sections 6 and 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. A complaint had been made by the mother of a 1 year old child stating that upon returning home, she found her child to be injured after the petitioner, a domestic-helper, had been alone with the child. The Sessions Court had repeatedly rejected the bail application based on the serious nature of the allegations and lack of eyewitnesses. Ultimately, the High Court granted bail to the petitioner on the grounds of her age and absence of direct evidence against her, conditioning her release on regular court appearances and prohibiting her from influencing witnesses.

[case 1044]
Sujeet Kumar @ Sujeet Kumar Sharma vs The State Of Bihar on 5 February, 2025. Petitioners apprehend their arrest in connection with Chakia P. S. Case No. 185 of 2024, which involves multiple serious charges including attempted kidnapping of a child. The informant alleges that the petitioners, armed and accompanied by unknown persons, destroyed her property and verbally abused her. There is a complex background involving family relations, as the informant's husband is the brother of one of the petitioners. The police initially pacified the matter without making any arrests. The petitioners apply for anticipatory bail on the basis of their clean antecedents and the nature of the accusations against them. The court, after hearing both sides, grants anticipatory bail under certain conditions requiring the petitioners to furnish bail bonds.

[case 1045]
The high court case of Raju Yallappa vs The State Of Karnataka illustrates the proceedings in a sexual assault case under the POCSO Act. It highlights the complexity involved in prosecuting cases involving minors, especially those from Scheduled Tribes. The appellant was found guilty of assaulting a 9-year-old girl after luring her to a field and was charged under multiple legal provisions designed to protect minors from sexual offenses. The court discussed various witness testimonies and the importance of medical evidence in substantiating the victim's account of the crime. Ultimately, the court confirmed the conviction for serious offenses while questioning aspects related to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Act, thereby underscoring the significance of appropriate legal remedies in sexual violence cases involving children.

[case 1046]
The petitioner is before this Court calling in question proceedings in Spl. C. C. No. 5025/2019 registered for the offences punishable under Sections 363, 376, 114 and 34 of IPC and Sections 4, 5L, 6 and 17 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, (hereinafter referred as "POCSO Act" for short). The case involves a complaint filed regarding a 17-year-old victim who had gone missing and was later found. The complaint led to the arrest of the petitioner, accused No. 5, based on the assertion that he aided in the transportation of the victim but did not actively participate in the offence. The court examined whether there was sufficient evidence to sustain charges against the petitioner under IPC and POCSO Act, concluding no significant involvement as per the evidence presented, thus quashing the proceedings against him.

[case 1047]
This Criminal Miscellaneous Petition has been filed to suspend the sentence imposed on the petitioner/A2 by the learned Special Judge under the POCSO Act, 2012. The prosecution argues that the accused, including the petitioner/A2, were involved in the procurement and exploitation of minor girls belonging to a disadvantaged community, indicating a case of child labor and abuse. The minors subjected to such labor were found to be deprived of basic necessities and faced conditions amounting to cruelty, with specific charges laid under various laws protecting children, including the POCSO Act and regulations against bonded labor. Post-trial, the evidence led to conviction and sentencing, and now the petitioner seeks to appeal the sentence. The context shows a clear necessity for reinforcing legal standards to protect vulnerable children.

[case 1048]
Pradeep Kumar Agarwal vs The State Of Telangana on 12 March, 2025. Criminal Appeal Nos. 328, 354, 391 and 395 of 2021. The Trial Court found the accused guilty under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act). The primary perpetrator was sentenced to life imprisonment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault. Victims were two minor girls, aged 8 and 9 years, subjected to sexual abuse, intimidation, and forced domestic labor by accused 1 and his juvenile son and accused 5, the victims' mother. The prosecution provided testimonies from witnesses that corroborated the abuse the children faced at home. The court acknowledged the severe psychological trauma faced by the victims. The final judgment acquitted some accused due to lack of consistent evidence against them but upheld the conviction of the primary accused.

[case 1049]
Shaharbanu vs The Sub Inspector Of Police on 27 November, 2018. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM. This bail application is filed under section 439 of the Cr. P. C. The applicant herein is the 2nd accused in Crime No. 149 of 2017 of the Mankada Police Station registered under Sections 376(2)(i), 376(2)(n) of the IPC and under Section 4 r/w. 3(a), Section 6 r/w. 5 and Section 17 r/w. 16 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The victim is the minor daughter of the applicant. She was aged 8 years. In her statement furnished to the Assistant Sub Inspector of Police on 3. 9. 2017, the child alleged that in the year 2013 and 2014, she was taken to a lodge by the 1st accused and the child was sexually molested by him. It is alleged that the applicant actively aided the 1st accused to commit the said horrendous act.

[case 1050]
Delhi Commission For Women vs State (Govt Of Nct Delhi) & Ors on 13 February, 2025. The case involves a minor girl, aged 14 years, who was subjected to kidnapping and sexual assault as per allegations in FIR No. 1553/2015. After her initial statement contradicted the FIR, she later accused the police of coercion, leading to her disappearance and subsequent recovery amidst threats from the accused. The Police's negligence in handling the investigation and the failure in providing protective measures prompted the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) to seek intervention through a writ petition, highlighting issues surrounding the victim's rights and legal protection under the POCSO Act and IPC. The hearing discussed police accountability, victim protection, and the urgent need for a thorough investigation into the case and related FIRs.

[case 1051]
Case: - CRIMINAL MISC ANTICIPATORY BAIL APPLICATION U/S 438 CR. P. C. No. - 6220 of 2021
Applicant: - Deepak Singh
Opposite Party: - State of U. P. and Another
Counsel for Applicant: - Kamlakar Pal, Sushil Kumar Pal
Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A.
Hon'ble Siddharth, J.
Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned AGA for the State.
The instant anticipatory bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant, Deepak Singh, with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 0024 of 2020, under Section-363, 366, 376 I. P. C and 3/4 POCSO Act, Police Station-Ghazipur, District-Fatehpur, during pendency of trial. .. . the trial court on the dates fixed for (i) opening of the case, (ii) framing of charge and (iii) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. .. .

[case 1052]
In the case of Xxx vs State Of Kerala on 16 February, 2022, the petitioner, a mother of a minor girl child, states that her married life was complicated and ultimately her second husband was wrongfully accused of touching her daughter inappropriately by the child's grandmother. The police subsequently registered a case against the husband under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. However, it was concluded that the allegations were false, yet the child remained in custody of the Child Welfare Committee. The mother has sought to regain custody, as she alleges that communication with her child is being unduly restricted. The Court ordered that while the petitioner be allowed visitation, the Child Welfare Committee must continuously monitor the welfare of the child.

[case 1053]
In the decision delivered on January 15, 2025, the Karnataka High Court dealt with a criminal petition addressing charges against Sayyed Usman and others under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. The petitioners contended that accusations of facilitating a minors marriage were unfounded as no direct or clear allegations supported their claim. The court's examination brought into focus the critical need for specificity in the prosecution's assertions. It was found that the lack of clear evidence connecting the petitioners to the crime highlighted a fundamental legal principle: accountability under child protection laws must be rooted in direct involvement or awareness of wrongdoing. This led to the quashing of proceedings against the petitioners and bolstered the legal interpretation of the protections afforded to the accused.

[case 1054]
In this case, the High Court has provided insights into the legal framework surrounding the Domestic Violence Act, which was designed to protect women from violence within the domestic sphere. The court emphasizes that domestic violence proceedings are civil in nature, and therefore, Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code cannot be invoked to quash these applications. The judgment elucidates the distinct character of legal rights available under the Domestic Violence Act, indicating that the proceedings initiated regarding domestic violence must be heard by a Magistrate rather than a Family Court, due to the unique provisions and objectives of the Act. This highlights the rules of procedure and jurisdiction that govern domestic violence claims, giving a clear direction regarding the roles each court plays in such proceedings.

[case 1055]
Sri Narasimha Raju vs State Of Karnataka on 11 May, 2016. This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 439 of the code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, praying to enlarge the petitioners on bail in Crime No. 30/2016 of Bethamangala Police Station, Kolar Gold Fields, for the offences punishable under Sections 376(2)(F), 366(A), 506 read with 34 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Sections 5 and 6 of POCSO Act and Sections 3, 4, 5, 6 of Child Marriage Restraint Act and Section 3 (1) (10(11) of SC/ST (POA) Act. The allegations are vague. The accusation of the complainant having been kidnapped and having been subjected to forcible sexual intercourse is lost in continuous narration of the sequence of events. Therefore, the petitioner has made out a case for grant of bail, especially since accused nos. 2 and 3 have already been enlarged on bail.

[case 1056]
The Karnataka High Court case of Sayyed Usman S/O Sayyedmohiddin vs The State Of Karnataka, decided on January 15, 2025, centers around the legal interpretation of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act principles. The petitioners, accused as members of their local mosque's leadership, were alleged to have played a role in the marriage of a minor. A complaint initiated by the local Child Welfare Committee prompted the legal action. The court actively examined the framework of Sections 10 and 11 regarding engagement in child marriages, ultimately finding that the charges against the petitioners lacked sufficient evidential basis for prosecution due to the absence of specific allegations of their involvement. This led to the dismissal of the case against them and reinforced the need for legal justification in child marriage matters.

[case 1057]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD

? Neutral Citation No.
- 2025: AHC: 35435

Court No.
- 65

Case: - CRIMINAL MISC.
- 38451 of 2024

Applicant: - Sunny

Opposite Party: - State Of U. P.
And 3 Others

Counsel for Applicant: - Kumar Ashutosh Srivastava, Mohd.
Zeeshan, Nagendra Bahadur Singh, Surendra Mohan Mishra, Vishveshwar Mani Tripathi

Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. ,Riyajuddin Ansari

Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J.
The applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No.
158 of 2024, U/S 363, 376 IPC and 5(j)2/6 POCSO Act, Police Station Gauri Bazar, District Deoria, during the pendency of trial.
The victim is the consenting party, and she has given birth to a baby boy.

[case 1058]
In the case of Manish Kumar (Cicl Y) vs The State Of Bihar, various juvenile children in conflict with law are seeking bail after being charged with heinous offenses under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code as well as the POCSO Act. The children's court has rejected the bail applications citing issues of their involvement in serious crimes and social investigation reports indicating the risk of re-offending if released. The juveniles' cases are touching upon the principles of juvenile justice, particularly regarding the presumption of innocence and the best interests of the child as mandated by the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. The court recognizes the need for careful consideration of bail applications while keeping in mind the need for rehabilitation as well as legal rights of the child.

[case 1059]
The case involves Sachin S/O Shivaji Dhongade, accused of sexually assaulting a four-year-old girl, resulting in his conviction under Section 3(a) of the POCSO Act. The judgment highlights the testimony of witnesses and medical evidence, asserting that the actions were confirmed as penetrative sexual assault. The trial recognized the age of the victim as critical in determining guilt, and procedural discrepancies were scrutinized during the appeal process. There is emphasis on the legal treatment of sexual offenses, especially those perpetrated against children, raising discussions on the adequacy of current punishments relative to the crime committed and the responsibilities of legal frameworks to protect children. The case continues in the courts, focusing on whether the punishment meted aligns with the gravity of the offense.

[case 1060]
The Present Criminal Revision has been preferred by the revisionist through his mother under Section 102 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as "JJ Act, 2015") against the judgment dated 6. 9. 2021 passed by Special Judge (POCSO Act), Fatehpur in Criminal Appeal No. 38 of 2021, whereby the appellate court has rejected the Criminal appeal and affirmed the order dated 11. 8. 2021 passed by Juvenile Justice Board, Fatehpur. The Juvenile Justice Board has rejected the bail application of the revisionist, which has been filed by his natural guardian/mother, under Section 12 of "JJ Act, 2015" arising out of Case Crime No. 566 of 2019, under Sections 363, 376 of the Indian Penal Code. ..

[case 1061]
Today, the learned Government Pleader made a motion to take up the case for consideration, on the basis that the alleged detenue is being produced. The case was taken up with due notice to the counsel appearing for the petitioner, who was present in the court. It is submitted by the learned Government Pleader that the police team had traced out the alleged detenue and the 6th respondent from a forest area near Melukavu. It is further mentioned that, pursuant to the medical examination conducted on the alleged detenue, the case was altered as one punishable under Sections 376 A & 366 A of the IPC and Sections 3, 4, 5 & 6 of the POCSO Act. It is stated that necessary steps for arrest of the 6th respondent is being pursued. When we interacted with the alleged detenue, she conceded of having gone with the 6th respondent on 6. 1. 2019.

[case 1062]
K. Govindan vs State Of Kerala on 24 August, 2020 The sole accused in S. C. No. 840 of 2014 on the files of the First Additional Sessions Court, Kasaragod has come up in this appeal challenging his conviction and sentence in the said case. The accusation in the case is that the accused has committed rape on the victim girl aged 12 years in a shed. The prosecution examined the victim girl and medical evidence that was deemed essential in solidifying the case against the accused. However, the court expressed doubts over the credibility of the testimonies while noting the absence of corroborative evidence. The case resulted in the conviction being downgraded to Section 354 of the IPC. This judgment highlights the criticality of consistent testimony and credible evidence in ensuring that justice is served in child protection matters.

[case 1063]
Khadar Khan @ Saddu vs State Of Karnataka on 1 March, 2018. This is a petition under Section 439 of the Criminal Procedure Code praying to enlarge the petitioner on bail for the offence punishable under section 506 of IPC and Sections 4, 6, 9(m) of POCSO Act. The alleged offence is that on 15. 9. 2017, the petitioner took the victim girl on his motor cycle to a distant place and sexually abused her. The police held investigation and filed charge sheet on 8. 12. 2017. According to Section 34 of the POCSO Act, the statement of the victim child should be recorded within thirty days after taking cognizance. The petition is allowed. Petitioner shall be released on bail in connection with Crime No. 154/2017 on his executing bond for a sum of Rs. 1, 00, 000/- and providing two sureties for the likesum to the satisfaction of the trial Court.

[case 1064]
In the case of Jabbar vs State on 30 May, 2018, the High Court of Delhi dealt with the conviction of Jabbar under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act) for committing aggravated penetrative sexual assault on a 6-year-old boy, referred to as S. The events unfolded when S's mother, Noor Jahan Begum, reported that Jabbar had taken her son to a jungle and assaulted him. Medical evidence confirmed the claims, showing trauma consistent with sodomy. The trial court sentenced Jabbar to life imprisonment, a decision he appealed. The High Court maintained the conviction but modified the sentence, reducing it to 15 years, considering the age of the offender and the nature of the crime. The Court emphasized the urgency in protecting children from sexual offenses, highlighting the purpose of the POCSO Act.

[case 1065]
In the ruling of Smt. Anjali Shivhare vs Nitin Shivhare dated 20 January, 2025, the court assessed numerous allegations regarding the conduct of both parties. The focal point of the dispute was between domestic violence claims, dowry pressures, and public altercations impacting their daughter, Ku. Aishwarya. It was derived that both parties accused each other of causing extensive mental distress that led to the dissolution of their marital relationship. The husband indicated that continuous threats from his wife inflicting emotional harm served as a foundation for his appeal for divorce. Meanwhile, Anjali argued her husband's unacceptable demands and the emotional abuse she suffered warranted acknowledgment by the court. Their daughters welfare became a pivotal aspect of the court's considerations in determining any remedy.

[case 1066]
The legal landscape surrounding Raj Kishores case exemplifies the necessity for carefully constructed safeguarding frameworks under child protection laws, particularly when associated with instances of alleged sexual misconduct with minors. The evidentiary challenges related to age determination forced essential considerations regarding consent and legal age under POCSO. The intersection of agency expressed by the prosecutrix, her statements, and the conclusive burden of proof placed by the prosecution informed the court's nuanced judgment. Coupled with the emphasis on prosecutorial competence, the ruling advanced discussions about how the judicial system must align legal provisions with real-life implications to address adequately both victim advocacy and the rights of the accused.

[case 1067]
The present appeal is filed against the judgment and order, dated 27. 04. 2018, passed by the learned Sessions Judge, Mahila Court, Trichy, in Spl. S. C. No. 28 of 2017 in and by which the Appellant was convicted for the offence punishable under Sections 5(l)(m)(n) r/w Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, and sentenced as under: 1. U/s. 5(l) r/w Sec. 6 of POCSO Act Life Imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 1, 000/-, in default, to undergo Simple Imprisonment for one year. 2 U/s. 5(m) r/w Sec. 6 of POCSO Act Life Imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 1, 000/-, in default, to undergo Simple Imprisonment for one year. 3. U/s. 5(n) r/w Sec. 6 of POCSO Act Life Imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 1, 000/-, in default, to undergo Simple Imprisonment for one year. The trial court further directed that the sentences shall run concurrently.

[case 1068]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD

? Neutral Citation No.
- 2025: AHC: 35435

Court No.
- 65

Case: - CRIMINAL MISC.
- 38451 of 2024

Applicant: - Sunny

Opposite Party: - State Of U. P.
And 3 Others

Counsel for Applicant: - Kumar Ashutosh Srivastava, Mohd.
Zeeshan, Nagendra Bahadur Singh, Surendra Mohan Mishra, Vishveshwar Mani Tripathi

Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. ,Riyajuddin Ansari

Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J.
158 of 2024, U/S 363, 376 IPC and 5(j)2/6 POCSO Act, where the applicant claims innocence and the victim has previously expressed willingness to live with him, the court recognizes the importance of maintaining the victim's rights while addressing the applicant's bail application.

[case 1069]
In the case of N. Balaji vs The State Rep. By on 20 August, 2018, the petitioner is undergoing a trial under the POCSO Act for allegedly sexually abusing a minor girl. The victim (PW1), aged about 15, along with three other witnesses (PW2, PW3, PW4), had already testified, but the accused failed to cross-examine them in time and instead filed for a deferral which the trial court dismissed. The High Court stated that the dismissal was appropriate, given the urgency of crossing examination in such sensitive cases and the guidelines from the Supreme Court emphasized that the victim should not be subjected to repeated examinations. The court has allowed for the cross-examination of some of the witnesses but placed conditions and costs on the petitioner, reinforcing the fundamental rights of child victims in judicial proceedings.

[case 1070]
Sayyed Usman S/O Sayyedmohiddin vs The State Of Karnataka was reviewed by the Karnataka High Court on January 15, 2025. The case involved allegations against the petitioners, who were accused of facilitating a child marriage under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. The matter arose after an FIR was lodged by the President of the Child Welfare Committee concerning a minor's marriage. Upon examining the charge sheet and the petitioners' case, the court found a lack of concrete evidence or specific claims linking the petitioners to any involvement in the marriage. As a result, the court deemed the case against them baseless and quashed the legal proceedings. This ruling highlights the legal imperative for clear evidence linked to the alleged crime in order to maintain just legal practices in sensitive child marriage cases.

[case 1071]
The judgment involves a case where the petitioner, Dr. P. S. Selvaraj, has filed a revision petition against an order from the Trial Court rejecting his plaint concerning claims of defamation based on alleged inappropriate behavior towards a minor. The plaintiff asserts that the first defendant, the daughter of the second and third defendants, made defamatory statements after being denied a property share. The plaintiff claims that the first defendant accused him of sexual abuse that allegedly occurred during her childhood, and these statements were disseminated via social media. The Trial Court initially refused to consider claims against the second and third defendants but the petitioner argues there is sufficient cause of action against them, particularly as the plaint alleges a conspiracy between them to tarnish his image.

[case 1072]
This is first application under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 for grant of bail filed on behalf of the applicant who has been arrested relating to FIR/Crime No. 147/2023 dated 02. 10. 2023 registered at Police Station Kesla, District Narmadapuram for an offence punishable under Section 376(2)(n), 506 of IPC and Sections 5, 6 of POCSO Act, 2012. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is in custody since 02. 10. 2023 and the trial will take considerable time to conclude. He further submits that the applicant is innocent and has falsely been implicated in the case. The applicant is a permanent resident of district and is ready to furnish adequate surety and shall abide by all the conditions to be imposed by the Court. Upon these grounds, it is prayed that the applicant be released on bail.

[case 1073]
In the case of The State Of Karnataka vs J Kiran @ Key adjudicated on November 2, 2020, the accused, J. Kiran, faced serious allegations of sexual assault against minors under the age of 18, who were his step-daughters. These included repeated instances of sexual abuse and rape, which were reported by the victims through the Child Welfare Committee. The Sessions Court sentenced the accused to a total of 10 years for the most severe charges under the POCSO Act, although the prosecution argued for a maximum sentence due to the nature of the crimes. The case raised crucial issues regarding the adequacy of sentences for sexual offenses against children, victim protection, and the approach taken by the judicial system in considering the evidence presented, which included witness testimonies and medical reports indicating abuse.

[case 1074]
Madras High Court case 23124 vs Mahalakshmi Senthil Nathan on 21 January, 2021 involves a habeas corpus petition filed by Girish Arunagiri seeking the return of his two daughters, Shakthi Girish (12) and Sharadha Girish (3), to the United States. The petitioner asserts that Mahalakshmi took the children to India without his consent, while she claims he was abusive. An intricate legal battle of custody and protection concerns ensues. The Maryland Court ordered Mahalakshmi to return the children to the US, which she failed to comply with, citing her reasons of domestic abuse. The court evaluates the children's welfare as paramount, determining that they should return to their familiar environment in the US, emphasizing that the jurisdiction of family matters ought to follow the functional ties with the children's upbringing.

[case 1075]
Vinod Kumar @ Sheshnath vs State Nct Of Delhi on 24 August, 2015. In the case, the appellant was convicted under various sections of the POCSO Act for sexual abuse of his daughter 'X', who was a minor. The legal proceedings were based on a detailed statement provided by 'X' along with corroboration from her mother. The appellant had denied these allegations, claiming false implications arising from familial disputes. However, the trial court upheld the convictions after a thorough examination of witness statements and evidence presented. The case underscores the importance of child protection laws, which prioritize the well-being and rights of minors subjected to abuse. The court's decision reflects the legal framework aimed at safeguarding children from such heinous acts and ensuring appropriate punishments for offenders.

[case 1076]
Chhaya Hazra vs Unknown on 7 February, 2025. This case brings attention to an application for bail under Section 483 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, involving multiple petitioners. During the proceedings, the Public Prosecutor noted the presence of Md. Basar Ali, the District Child Protection Officer, who was unwilling to provide testimony regarding the sexual abuse of children in a home. The court directed the investigating officer to interrogate Ali, and expressed concern over the Public Prosecutor's handling of the case, especially in expunging Ali from witness status and rejecting a forensic examination of crucial evidence from the case. The court concluded by scheduling to hear the matter again on 10th February, 2025, and mandated the Legal Remembrancer to investigate the Public Prosecutor's conduct.

[case 1077]
Case: - CRIMINAL MISC ANTICIPATORY BAIL APPLICATION U/S 438 CR. P. C. No. - 6220 of 2021
Applicant: - Deepak Singh
Opposite Party: - State of U. P. and Another
Counsel for Applicant: - Kamlakar Pal, Sushil Kumar Pal
Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A.
Hon'ble Siddharth, J.
Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned AGA for the State.
The instant anticipatory bail application has been filed on behalf of the applicant, Deepak Singh, with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 0024 of 2020, under Section-363, 366, 376 I. P. C and 3/4 POCSO Act, Police Station-Ghazipur, District-Fatehpur, during pendency of trial. .. . himself on the dates fixed for (i) opening of the case, (ii) framing of charge and (iii) recording of statement under Section 313 Cr. P. C. .. .

[case 1078]
In the case of Shri Satish vs State Of Karnataka, a complaint was registered against several individuals for violations related to child marriage and sexual offences. The main allegation was that the parents of an 18-year-old girl married her off before she reached the legal marriageable age of 18. The girl subsequently became pregnant and the police took cognizance of the offence. It was argued that as the girl is now above 18, the charges against the husband should be quashed. However, since the marriage occurred when she was a minor, the parents are also implicated under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, stating they exercised undue influence over her decision. The court is tasked with determining whether the proceedings against all individuals can be quashed based on the ongoing marriage and potential settlement.

[case 1079]
Sri X vs The State Of West Bengal And Others on 17 August, 2023
The judgment on this case recognizes a minor's right to medical assistance in terms of pregnancy termination, juxtaposed with her grave circumstances following a sexual assault. The court discusses how the existing legislative framework of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, specifically Sections 3 and 5, can be interpreted to favor the immediate health and psychological well-being of the minor. Theres a strong emphasis on the necessity of judicial discretion in evaluating exceptional cases. The court takes into account the minor's age, the circumstances of the conception, and the possible lifelong implications of childbirth on such a young girl, thus representing an important intersection of law and ethical considerations regarding children's rights.

[case 1080]
M. G. Ashok vs / on 31 July, 2021. .. The petitioner herein is the third accused in Special S. C. No. 174 of 2023 in Crime No. 4/2021 which was investigated by ST. Thomas Mount Police and final report filed for the offences under Sections 9(n), (l), 10, 11(3), 12 and 17 of POCSO Act, Section 294 (b), 506(1), 451, 323 of I. P. C. The petitioner contends that the F. I. R dated 31/07/2021 is only against Veera Bharathi Devi and her brother Vimalraj. As Counsel for Veera Bharathi Devi, he was actively pursuing the complaints against Boopalamurugan and his brother in law Angayarkannan. Therefore, Angayarkannan through his sister Selvi had spun the story as if the minor girl child of Selvi been sexually abused by Vimalraj (brother of Veera Bharathi Devi) and Advocate M. G. Ashok (petitioner herein) at the instigation of Veera Bharathi Devi.

[case 1081]
Nipun Saxena vs Union Of India Ministry Of Home Affairs on 5 September, 2018. .. lawful compensation for victims of sexual abuse under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (for short POCSO Act). Section 33 of the POCSO Act deals with the procedure and powers of the Special Courts. Our attention has been drawn to Section 33(8) of the POCSO Act. This reads as follows: (8). In appropriate cases, the Special Court, may, in addition to the punishment, direct payment of such compensation as may be prescribed to the child for any physical or mental trauma caused to him or for immediate rehabilitation of such child.  Section 45 of the POCSO Act deals with the rule making power and it refers, inter alia, to the payment of compensation under sub-section (8) of Section 33 of the POCSO Act. ..

[case 1082]
State vs Joginder Sharma S/O Ram Kishan on 20 March, 2018. The facts of the prosecution case are that Ms. 'S' moved a complaint against her tuition teacher for commission of sexual assault during her tuition class. She alleged that the accused had taken her into an inner room and locked the door, caught hold of her hands, and touched her breast. The accused was arrested, and a trial commenced. The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed personal vengeance as the reason for the allegations against him. Despite the testimony of the prosecutrix, inconsistencies and contradictions arose during the trial, particularly involving the testimonies of her friends and the timeline of events. The court ultimately acquitted the accused due to the lack of reliable evidence and significant contradictions in the prosecutrix's statements.

[case 1083]
The case of Mohammed Nayeem vs. The State Of Karnataka discusses the legal proceedings involving allegations of sexual offenses against minors under the POCSO Act. Initially, a 17-year-old girl did not return home, prompting her father to file a complaint. The girl was found with three individuals, and she later disclosed that she was forcefully taken. The case led to a charge sheet being filed against the accused under various sections of the IPC and POCSO Act. The petitioners sought to quash the proceedings, citing a compromise agreement reached with the victim's family. The High Court, while noting the gravity of the offenses, also acknowledged the court's inherent power to quash proceedings under Section 482 of the CrPC if it serves the ends of justice and considers the nature of the offenses and the societal impact.

[case 1084]
Ankit Kumar vs The State Of Bihar on 27 January, 2025. IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA. CRIMINAL REVISION No. 592 of 2023. The High Court is reviewing the decisions made at the Juvenile Justice Board relating to various cases of juveniles accused of serious crimes, including the offences of rape under the POSCO Act. A crucial aspect being discussed is the impact of the Social Investigation Reports (SIRs) which evaluate the home environment and psychological dynamics of the children involved before they are granted bail. These reports are essential to establish whether these minors are likely to reintegrate with criminal elements if released. In several instances, juveniles accused of serious crimes have been held in custody adequately since their cases are viewed with gravity under Sections 12 and 13 of the Act.

[case 1085]
In reviewing the details of the legal case against Satyam Yadav, one significant aspect mentioned is the burden of proof that lies on the prosecution when dealing with juvenile offenders. The legal text specifies that it is essential to ensure that allegations against a minor must be backed by credible evidence before any punitive measures can be enacted. This principle is rooted in recognizing the vulnerability of juveniles and the critical importance of justice without prejudice. The passage underlines that the rights of juvenile accused are paramount and that all legal proceedings must uphold these rights through adequate representation and fair treatment. Courts are tasked with a careful examination of evidence, weighing the risk of wrongful convictions for minors which could have dire implications for their future.

[case 1086]
The ongoing legal case involving Joseph Kevin Selvadoray against the State of Karnataka reveals profound implications regarding child safety and the judicial process. Joseph faces accusations which he claims are rooted in ongoing custody disputes with his estranged wife. The High Court has reflected on how accusations under the POCSO Act can have severe consequences, not only legally but also socially for the accused parent. The court's rulings speak to the importance of carefully assessing the evidence and context of allegations, such as IT locations, prior custody arrangements, and other influencing factors before deciding on the appropriateness of bail or further legal sanctions. The judgment emphasizes that children's welfare must remain a priority, making the careful examination of all available evidence paramount.

[case 1087]
The present appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order of conviction and sentence dated 17. 05. 2022 and 19. 05. 2022 passed by the Learned Judge Special (POCSO) Court cum, Additional Sessions Judge, 2nd Court, Asansol, Paschim Bardhaman in Sessions (POCSO) case no. 06/2017 wherein the learned Trial Court was pleased to hold the appellant guilty for commission of offence under Section 8/12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced him as follows: (i) Rigorous Imprisonment for three years and fine of Rs. 5000/- in default to suffer S. I. for six months for the offence under Section 8 of the POCSO Act. (ii) Simple Imprisonment for one year and fine of Rs. 500/- in default to suffer S. I. for one month for offence under Section 12 of POCSO Act.

[case 1088]
Ananth vs Jenmarakkini on 30 January, 2024. This Civil Miscellaneous Appeal has been filed by the appellant/petitioner/husband, challenging the order passed by the learned Principal District Judge, at Thanjavur in I. D. O. P. No. 140 of 2012 dated 19. 04. 2018. The petitioner is a differently abled person who married Jenmarakkini in 1996. Their marital life initially was filled with joy, producing three daughters. However, the respondent's behavior turned abusive over time, leading to severe psychological and physical distress for Ananth. After enduring years of mental anguish and threats, he decided to approach the courts for dissolution of marriage, only to have the trial court dismiss his claims, indicating insufficient evidence to substantiate his allegations. Ananth feels that his legal recourse has been unjustly denied.

[case 1089]
In the court of Ashwani Kumar Sarpal, Addl. Sessions Judge1 cum Presiding Officer of Special Court under POCSO Act, (East District), Karkardooma Courts, Delhi. The record shows that accused is in custody since the date of his arrest i. e. 31-1-2014. FIR NO. 76/14 PS Gandhi Nagar U/S 376/506 IPC & 4 of POCSO Act. The case was initiated based on a complaint from the mother of an 8-year-old victim, who alleged that the accused had assaulted her daughter. Medical examinations and various witness testimonies were collected, leading to the prosecution's arguments during the trial. Initially, charges were framed under different sections of the IPC and the POCSO Act, later amended upon request in light of gathered evidence. Following extensive procedures, the court reached a judgment resulting in the conviction of the accused.

[case 1090]
Sani vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 11 February, 2025. HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD. Case: - CRIMINAL MISC. BAIL APPLICATION No. - 46721 of 2024. Applicant: - Sani. Opposite Party: - State Of U. P. And 3 Others. The applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No. 478 of 2024, U/S 137(2), 65(1), 64(F) B. N. S. and 5N/6 POCSO Act and Section 9 of Child Marriage Act. The victim has refuted the allegations made in the FIR, stating she went to her Aunt's house voluntarily. The applicant is arguing for bail on grounds of innocence, lack of criminal history, and that the allegations are false. The court emphasizes the principle of 'Presumption of Innocence Unless Proven Guilty' and highlights Article 21 of the Indian Constitution regarding the right to liberty. The bail application is ultimately granted, subject to conditions.

[case 1091]
The appeal case of State Of Karnataka vs Sri Brahmadeva reviewed the acquittal of a teacher accused of sexually assaulting a minor, underscoring the complexity of legal proceedings in child abuse cases. The victim's disclosure of her experiences and the subsequent investigatory and judicial processes revealed procedural delays and challenges with witness testimonies that ultimately led to doubts about the allegations. Legal principles within the POCSO Act require that charges must be proven beyond reasonable doubt but also recognize the unique vulnerabilities experienced by child victims. The case raises essential concerns around the adequacy of legal protections and the need for refined approaches in both the investigation and prosecution of sexual abuse to mitigate victim trauma and enhance the prospects for justice.

[case 1092]
Vandana @ Bandana Saini And Another vs State Of U. P. And 5 Others on 30 June, 2021. This case discusses a habeas corpus writ petition filed for Vandana @ Bandana Saini by her husband, seeking her release from a women's asylum where she was placed following allegations of being a minor victim of various offenses including abduction under Sections 363, 366 of IPC and the POCSO Act. The court examined the age determination and the child's need for protection under the Juvenile Justice Act. Judicial orders emphasize child welfare by keeping the minor within protective custody when necessary. The decision addressed the specifications of the Child Welfare Committee and affirmed the orders made for the protection of children in need, inevitably stressing legal remedies and protection laws provided for minors under Indian law.

[case 1093]
In the case of Thakor Karanji Somaji vs State Of Gujarat, an appeal under Section 374 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure challenges the conviction under Sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the POCSO Act after the appellant, accused of attempting to abduct and sexually assault an 8-year-old girl, was sentenced to multiple years in prison and fines for various serious offenses. The prosecution presented numerous witnesses including doctors and family members of the victim, while the defense argued inconsistencies in the victim's statements and denied the charges. The trial court found sufficient evidence for conviction, which was partly upheld on appeal, while analyzing the adequacy and credibility of witness testimonies, as well as the legal definitions and implications of sexual assault under the POCSO Act.

[case 1094]
Yallappa vs The State Of Karnataka on 6 April, 2023, emphasizes the gravity of crime against minors under the provisions of the POCSO Act. With the conviction upheld, it's clear that legal penalties are applied rigorously to deter future crimes. The court's judgment reaffirmed that cases involving children receive heightened scrutiny considering their status as vulnerable victims. The ruling stressed the importance of a swift judicial response in cases of child abuse and laid down the need for appropriate compensations which conform to the victims' rights under existing laws. Legal frameworks under POCSO require that victims' rights are prioritized to reduce re-traumatization during legal proceedings implying that remedial legal actions should be timely and supportive of the legal process for families seeking justice.

[case 1095]
In the judgment in Arul Daniel vs Suganya, the Madras High Court focused on the provisions set forth in the Domestic Violence Act, particularly in light of petitions that sought to quash the proceedings initiated under this law. The court's discussion highlighted the interplay between civil and criminal frameworks in domestic violence cases, emphasizing the significant role of the Magistrate designated under the Act to deal with these matters. The case illuminated the necessity for a dedicated approach in addressing the needs of victims while ensuring that their rights are protected through the available legal channels. The bench underscored the importance of not having domestic violence proceedings transferred to Family Courts as such a transfer would mean the legislative purpose of the D. V. Act could be undermined.

[case 1096]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Shakil Khan vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 27 April, 2023. Appellant No. 1-Shakil Khan stands convicted under Section 4(2)/17 of POCSO Act and sentenced to undergo 20 years' R. I. with fine of Rs. 2, 000/- and under Section 11/120B of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and sentenced to undergo 2 years' R. I with fine of Rs. 1, 000/- with default stipulations. The prosecutrix claiming herself to be 14 years of age, on 20/09/2019, lodged an FIR that for the last 4-5 years since the time her mother expired, she was ill-treated by her step mother. She manipulated her marriage (Nikah) with co-accused Akhtar. After so-called solemnization of marriage, she was subjected to forcible sexual abuse. The prosecution story indicates serious violations of child protection laws and the rights of the victim.

[case 1097]
The case of State Of Karnataka vs Sri Brahmadeva emphasizes the need for judicial scrutiny in child sexual abuse cases under the POCSO Act, where the prosecution's inability to establish a strong corroborative foundation led to an acquittal of the alleged perpetrator. The victim's testimony, despite the severity of the allegations, faced challenges due to inconsistencies in witness statements and prolonged delays in reporting to authorities that significantly hindered the prosecution's case. The ruling highlights a vital point: that while children need to be protected legally, their evidence must also be scrutinized judiciously to prevent wrongful accusations or acquittals on the flip side, thus creating a tightrope that legal systems must navigate to balance both protection for children and fairness for the accused.

[case 1098]
Jitendra Kushwah vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh Thr on 25 October, 2018. The present Criminal Reference arises out of a judgment of conviction and order of sentence passed by the learned Fifth Sessions Judge/Special Judge (Under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses Act, 2012) Gwalior (M. P. ) for an offence under Section 363 and Section 366 of the IPC, as well as under Section 376 (A)(B) with a death sentence. The case involves a 7-year-old victim whose body was found after her disappearance during a wedding ceremony. The evidence included CCTV footage showing the accused with the victim, and DNA evidence confirmed his guilt. The High Court upheld the trial court's decision of capital punishment for the accused, taking into consideration the brutality of the crime and the irreparable harm done to the child.

[case 1099]
Sri Javed Shafiq Rao vs State Of Karnataka on 10 February, 2025
The Court faced the challenge of deciding whether legal responsibility could be maintained against a petitioner after they had formally transferred the operational duties of a residential facility, wherein negligence led to a childs death. The assertions highlighted the lack of adequate safety measures, and the petitioner stated that control was relinquished well before the occurrence. There were no substantive allegations against him, leading the Court to conclude that the petitioner's dismissal was warranted to prevent an abuse of legal proceedings. The ruling invokes the essence of clearly defined duties in protecting child welfare in shared living environments and points towards a need for responsible transfer practices across property management.

[case 1100]
The Supreme Court of India on 11 October 2017, ruled that sexual intercourse with a girl child below 18 years is considered rape, contrary to Exception 2 of Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which allowed such intercourse if the girl was married and above 15 years. The Court emphasized the need to address child marriage laws, asserting that a married girl child still retains her right to bodily integrity and reproductive choice, which should not be compromised due to marriage. The ruling was a response to the petition by Independent Thought, aimed at protecting the rights of girl children who marry young, often leading to inhumane conditions, neglect of their education, and health. The ruling aligns with Article 15(3) of the Constitution, allowing special provisions for the protection of women and children.

[case 1101]
X vs The State Of West Bengal And Others on 31 August, 2023. The petitioner's case involved a 13-year-old girl who suffered aggravated penetrative sexual assault leading to pregnancy. The court described the procedural aspects surrounding the medical termination of pregnancy, indicating the requirement of a Medical Board's involvement for assessment and decision-making. This is in line with the guidelines under the MTP Act which states that in cases where the health of the mother is at stake, and in particular for minors, termination must be carried out with utmost priority and consideration for the victim's condition. The judgment reinforces the adult protection in legal settings, particularly extending to minors, thus advocating a framework that prioritizes both the rights of the victim and the legislative intent.

[case 1102]
Ashok Ramchandra Shewale vs The State Of Maharashtra on 30 March, 2021. On 19th April 2019, a mother lodged a complaint at N. M. Joshi Marg Police Station about sexual assault on her special child aged 13 years. Allegations included that on 17th April 2019, the applicant locked the toilet door and sexually abused the child. This was reported by the victim's sister first. The applicant allegedly kissed the child and touched her inappropriately. Following the report, the child underwent a medical examination revealing 'multiple old healed hymenal tears'. Charges were filed under POCSO Act, later including Section 376 of IPC. However, serious questions arose regarding the allegations of penetration, an essential component of the rape charge. In consideration of these facts, bail was eventually granted to the applicant.

[case 1103]
High Court Of Karnataka vs The State Of Karnataka on 13 August, 2021. The court emphasized the critical nature of fulfilling vacancies within the Forensic Science Laboratories and ensuring the operational capacity of these entities due to their significance in upholding the justice system. The intervention by the judiciary serves to enforce compliance with constitutional protections afforded to accused individuals and victims alike by ensuring timely judicial proceedings. The Chief Justice directed that all relevant personnel be appointed promptly and that the state must present a detailed report on recruitment and operational readiness of the forensic science facilities. Such measures are aimed at reducing the backlog of cases hindered by delays in forensic analysis, contributing to a more efficient legal process.

[case 1104]
Smt. Lalitha W/O Narasimha Siddi vs The State Of Karnataka on 27 June, 2023
THIS CRIMINAL APPEAL IS FILED U/SEC. 372 OF CR. P. C. SEEKING TO (A) GRANT LEAVE TO APPEAL AGAINST THE ORDER DATED 17. 01. 2022 AND 18. 01. 2022 PASSED BY THE ADDITIONAL DISTRICT AND SESSIONS JUDGE, FTSC 1 KARWAR IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 13 OF 2021 IN SO FAR AS IT ONLY RELATED TO, RESTRICTED TO AND LIMITED TO THE AWARD OF INADEQUATE COMPENSATION PAYABLE UNDER THE NALSA'S COMPENSATION SCHEME FOR WOMEN VICTIMS/SURVIVORS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT/OTHER CRIMES 2018 AND (B) ENHANCE THE COMPENSATION NOW AWARDED FROM OF RS. 1, 00, 000 LACKS TO RS. 7 LACKS PLUS 50% OF THE SAID RS. 7 LACKS AT RS. 3. 5 LACKS AND THUS AWARD TOTAL COMPENSATION OF RS. 10. 50 LACKS TO BE PAYABLE UNDER THE NALSA'S COMPENSATION SCHEME FOR WOMEN VICTIMS/SURVIVORS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT/OTHER CRIME 2018.

[case 1105]
This appeal is directed against the conviction of the appellant and the sentence imposed on him in S. C. No. 1362 of 2016 on the files of the Additional Sessions Judge, Thiruvananthapuram. The appellant is the sole accused in the case. The accusation in the case is that on 19. 09. 2016, at about 6. 00 am, while the victim boy aged 11 years was proceeding from his house to a tuition centre, the accused abducted him to a remote place and committed penetrative sexual assault and carnal intercourse against the order of nature on him by kissing him and also by passing his penis into the anus of the victim boy, and thereby committed the offences punishable under Sections 363 and 377 of the Indian Penal Code (the IPC) and Section 3 read with Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (the POCSO Act).

[case 1106]
Arul Daniel vs Suganya on 4 May, 2022

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS

Crl. O. P.
Sr. No. 31852 of 2022 etc.
batch

Prayer in Crl. O. P.
SR. No. 28394 of 2022
Criminal Original Petition filed under Section 482 Cr. P. C.
seeking to call for the records in D. V. C.
No. 7 of 2022 pending on the file of the District Munsif-cum-Judicial Magistrate Court, Ranipet, Ranipet District and quash the complaint dated 04. 05. 2022.
The passage highlights the legislative intention behind the D. V.
Act to ensure the effective protection of women from domestic violence and clarifies the nature of proceedings as civil, establishing guidelines for the application processes and appealing against orders.

[case 1107]
In the situation involving Satyam Yadav, the implications of having a structured and supportive legal process as suggested by the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 are evident. The need for a systematic approach to handle juvenile cases, emphasizing the necessity for caring strategies instead of punitive actions, is highlighted. This legal framework incorporates the need for social workers and probation officers to assess the juvenile's circumstances comprehensively before any definitive actions are made. This protects the juvenile's welfare and promotes rehabilitation and community integration. Such structured processes are vital for ensuring that every juvenile case is viewed holistically, allowing for tailored interventions suited to the individual needs of the young persons involved.

[case 1108]
Gaurav Singh @ Gaurav vs State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Deptt. Of. .. on 24 February, 2025. The court evaluates the Bail Application No. - 1601 of 2025 presented by Gaurav Singh, who has been incarcerated since October for serious allegations that include violations of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Throughout the proceedings, Gaurav has maintained innocence, highlighting flaws within the FIR process and claiming a lack of direct accusations against him. His legal counsel points out the absence of named allegations in the FIR, alongside supportive statements from the prosecutrix. The court's decision ultimately hinges on Gaurav's lack of a previous criminal record and his willingness to adhere to rigorous bail conditions intended to facilitate his legal obligations during the trial.

[case 1109]
This Criminal Appeal has been filed against the judgment and order passed by the Sessions Judge, Special Court for POCSO Act Cases, Cuddalore, in Spl. S. C. No. 64 of 2019 dated 23. 12. 2020, convicting and sentencing the accused/appellant in the following manner: Offence: Section 5(m) read with Section 6 of the POCSO Act read with Section 376-AB IPC - Life imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 5, 000/-, in default to undergo three months simple imprisonment. The case of the prosecution is as under: The victim child aged about 6 years was playing near Mariamman temple and the appellant (A-1) is said to have lewd the child as if he is going to get her chocolate and took the child to a building belonging to the local body and laid her on the floor, removed her inner garments and committed penetrative sexual assault on her.

[case 1110]
In the ongoing legal proceedings concerning allegations of child abuse, the Karnataka High Court reviewed a case where the petitioner, aware of significant deficiencies in the polices initial investigation, sought redress through a writ petition. The court acknowledged that the petitioner, who reported incidents of inappropriate behavior by her husband toward their young daughter, had valid concerns about the investigative process led by the police. After scrutinizing the prosecutions handling of evidence, which lacked crucial eyewitness accounts and forensic investigation, the court decided that a further investigation was necessary. In its ruling, the court highlighted the rights of the victim and the obligation of the state to ensure effective and credible investigations in cases involving child protection.

[case 1111]
The appellant is the accused, who stood trial in which the prosecution led evidence through 17 witnesses marked 18 documents and produced 5 material objects. The appellant stood convicted under Ss. 376, 377 and 506(1)of the IPC and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life under 376(2)(f)&(i) of IPC which is for the remainder of his natural life and a fine of Rs. 1 lakh. Under S. 377 IPC the appellant was sentenced to five years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) and a fine of Rs. 50000/-. This High Court in Gopalan Achari v. State of Kerala emphasized the requirement of providing legal aid to every person under threat of deprivation of liberty, especially in the context of the Hon'ble Supreme Court having repeatedly pointed out that, bereft of such representation being ensured, the proceedings itself will be vitiated.

[case 1112]
This appeal portrays the sorry plight of an innocent minor girl, aged 11 years, who was repeatedly sexually exploited by none other than her father with the tacit support of her mother for about one year - a clear case of the fence itself eating the crop. The victim girl was staying with her parents and younger brother. The incidents took place in the year 2012-2013. At that time, the victim was a 5th standard student. The accused was a coolie. The prosecution alleged that the accused committed rape on the victim multiple times during the above-mentioned period. The victim narrated in detail three incidents of sexual assault. According to her, the first incident took place at her home when her mother and brother were away. When she complained about this to her mother in the evening, she supported her husband. ..

[case 1113]
X vs State Of Nct Of Delhi (Acting Through Its. .. on 20 October, 2022. The passage highlights various roles and responsibilities that the State has under the Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act). The Act recognizes the grave impacts of child sexual abuse and puts forth provisions to ensure that children have avenues for compensation and rehabilitation following an offence. The WHO emphasizes that exposure to violence affects cognitive development and long-term health outcomes. The passage further discusses how the victimization process can strip away survivors defences, making it critical for the justice system to support them at all stages. The concept of survivor-centric justice focuses on helping survivors to have a voice, feel validated, and receive adequate compensation.

[case 1114]
In the case Naveen Kumar. K vs State of Kerala on 20 October, 2020, the petitioner, Naveen Kumar, is accused of committing sexual offenses under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code & Section 5(j)(ii)(n) read with Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, involving a minor. The victim, who was 16 years old at the time of the incident, later married the petitioner after reaching the age of majority. The case went through various legal proceedings, including a request from the petitioner to quash the charges based on the marriage and subsequent resolution of issues between them. The court deliberated on the implications of continuing the proceedings and the public interest served by potentially quashing the charges given the family's financial situation and societal profile.

[case 1115]
The Madras High Court's ruling in the case of Arul Daniel vs Suganya highlighted the evolving nature of legal remedies available under the Domestic Violence Act, emphasizing that the judicial forum of a Magistrate serves a critical role in adjudicating claims of domestic violence claims and ensuring that victims have access to justice that is rooted in civil law. The court asserted that the nature of proceedings must respect the designated framework provided under the D. V. Act, particularly focusing on ensuring victims do not face undue burdens in seeking necessary protections against domestic violence. The ruling ultimately reinforced the idea that any summary dismissals via Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. would be considered inappropriate, thereby offering structured recourse to victims amidst legal complexities.

[case 1116]
Dilip Singh Yadav vs State Of U. P. And 2 Other on 18 August, 2021. This criminal case revolves around serious allegations against the applicant under various sections of IPC and POCSO Act concerning the abduction and sexual assault of a minor, whereby the victim asserts her desire to marry the accused, stating their relationship as consensual. The court encounters substantial arguments from both sides. On one hand, the applicant's defense revolves around the claims of mutual consent; on the other hand, the prosecution stresses that such claims may endanger the victims safety and well-being. Considering the evidence and the circumstances presented, the court grants bail, yet regulates the applicants interaction with the victim and ensures compliance with judicial procedures, reflecting a protective approach.

[case 1117]
Juvenile -X vs State Of U. P. And 3 Others on 24 March, 2023. The Juvenile Justice Board ruled on a bail application stating there were grounds to believe the juvenile would be a danger to himself or society if released. Despite the mother's assertions regarding the juvenile's lack of history in crime, the Board considered the nature of the alleged offences. The revisionist was detained in an observation home since December 2022 due to accusations involving serious offenses under the IPC and POCSO Act. The lesser gravity of juvenile offences does not exempt one from scrutiny about the risk involved upon release. In this context, the submissions from both the prosecution and defense were examined rigorously. The Court concluded the lower courts had not adequately considered all elements, thus allowing the bail.

[case 1118]
Smt. Ranjana Chaudhari vs State Of U. P. & Another on 3 January, 2018. The passage details the criminal revision filed under Section 397/401 Cr. P. C. regarding the summoning of the revisionist for trial. It mentions that the complainant was an 18-year-old who had allegedly been sexually exploited and threatened. The court highlighted that sufficient evidence existed to summon the revisionist due to statements given by the complainant and her parents, indicating that the revisionist threatened and abused the complainant. The court's decision appears to rest on the nature and credibility of the evidence presented in trial. Importantly, it discusses the application and limits of Section 319 Cr. P. C. , mentioning that the provisions of this law should be exercised with caution based on the evidence recorded in court.

[case 1119]
In the case of Hameed Ali vs The State on 25 March, 2024, the petitioner, Hameed Ali, sought to quash the proceedings in C. C. No. 44 of 2021 based on a complaint filed by his first wife alleging harassment and violence. The complaint led to allegations under Sections 498(A), 506(2), 406 r/w 109 of the IPC. The victim described severe mistreatment connected to her having given birth to a female child, including physical violence and harassment, prompting her to report to the authorities both in Riyadh and upon her return to India. The court found sufficient grounds to proceed with the case against the petitioner due to the seriousness of the allegations raised, despite the petitioner's claims of harassment and misunderstandings. The decision directed both parties to cooperate with the ongoing trial proceedings.

[case 1120]
In the judgment of Ms. Eera versus State of Delhi, the Supreme Court examined the pivotal issue of defining 'child' under the POCSO Act. Ms. Eera's case reveals that victims may biologically exceed the legal age but suffer from severe mental impairments that affect their understanding and capabilities. The court recognized that such cases necessitate a different approach, involving child-friendly procedures during trial and the appointment of representatives who can assist in effectively presenting their evidence. The court's analysis underscores the importance of maintaining the dignity of the victim and facilitating an atmosphere conducive to providing testimony, thereby underscoring the need for legal protections tailored to the unique conditions of mentally challenged individuals who need legal recourse.

[case 1121]
Consequent upon, and pursuant to, recording of the above statement, of S', under Section 164 of the CrPC, a supplementary charge sheet was filed. The statement of S' included allegations of repeated sexual assault by the appellant, along with reference to other juvenile boys. The reliance on this supplementary charge sheet highlights the procedural framework under which the case was being pursued, demonstrating the legal mechanisms in place to ensure that allegations of child sexual offenses are promptly addressed in a judicial context. However, the defense argued that the timing of this supplementary charge sheet was suspiciously close to prior allegations being made and that no immediate follow-through on the initial disclosures occurred, potentially affecting the integrity of the investigative process.

[case 1122]
Imran Shamim Khan vs The State Of Maharashtra on 22 January, 2019. The appellant herein is convicted for the offence punishable under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and is sentenced to suffer R. I. for 10 years and to pay fine of Rs. 2000/- in default to suffer S. I. for 15 days. The minor victim in question disclosed her account of severe sexual abuse to family members which led to several investigations. As the judicial process unfolded, pressures to recant from family members emerged. The court recognized the complexities surrounding child testimony influenced by familial ties but stood firm on emphasizing that such heinous offenses against children warrant stringent judicial actions under the POCSO Act, and that society has a duty to protect its children from abuse.

[case 1123]
Paulraj vs The Inspector Of Police on 6 July, 2015. In this case, PW2 categorically stated that the above performance of sexual intercourse by all the accused and her statement was not challenged during her cross examination. PW2 deposed that A2 made her sit on the chair, then removed her jatti and inserted his penis into her vagina and embraced her and kissed her and licked her private part and white oozed out, he left her and then gave her Rs. 20/-. Similarly, A1 accused took her to his house, made her lie on the cot stripped of her jatti, inserted his penis and as she felt pain, he had applied oil and something white oozed out and further stated that he gave her money. Similarly, A3 took her along with Mari Selvi to his house stripped of her jatti and inserted his penis into her vagina and gave her money.

[case 1124]
The judgment rendered by the Gujarat High Court also calls attention to sections of the Indian Penal Code alongside the POCSO Act relating to offenses against children, encapsulating the judicial responsibilities to uphold the law concerning child rights. The case involves severe allegations against Ashokbhai for kidnapping and sexual assault of a minor, where the legal proceedings included the examination of evidence demonstrating the victim's age and the nature of the crimes committed. The court highlights the essential need for reinforcing penalties under the law, particularly noting sections which stipulate minimum sentencing for crimes against children. It is observed that failing to apply a commensurate degree of punishment could cause systemic failure in deterring such predatory behaviors in society.

[case 1125]
In the ongoing legal proceedings against a distinguished political figure accused of misconduct against a minor, the Karnataka High Court highlights the essential nature of judicial oversight. Attention is drawn to the statutory provisions under the POCSO Act as well as the Criminal Procedure Code, emphasizing the true necessity for scrutiny and the ministerial functions of the magistrate in determining for proceeding with allegations. This standard ensures that claims are rigorously examined before cognizance is granted, thereby preventing wrongful accusations and protecting the rights of the individuals involved in these sensitive matters. The legal expectations are clear; the absence of due diligence or procedural accuracy could result in grave injustices and tarnish public faith in the judicial system.

[case 1126]
High Court Of Karnataka vs The State Of Karnataka on 13 August, 2021. The importance of forensic analysis in facilitating the judicial process is underscored by the court's direction for timely staffing and operational improvements in the various Forensic Science Laboratories. The high rates of vacancies and the consequent processing delays violate the constitutional right to a speedy trial for defendants, as well as prolonging victim trauma regarding unresolved cases. The state has been placed under obligation by the judiciary to take action to expedite manpower fulfillment in forensic operations, limiting judicial delays. Therefore, the implications of these court orders are profound, as they reflect a legal expectation for the state to enhance judicial performance through efficient forensic operations.

[case 1127]
The case Sayyed Usman S/O Sayyedmohiddin vs The State Of Karnataka, which reached the Karnataka High Court on January 15, 2025, showcased the critical examination of legal accusations against the petitioners related to child marriage offenses under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. In this instance, the petitioners, positioned within the community as President and Member of the Jamia Masjid, were accused of solemnizing the marriage of a minor boy. The High Court's judicial analysis focused on the essential elements of the given offenses and determined that without particular allegations of knowledge or direct action, the prosecution could not proceed. As a result, the court quashed criminal proceedings against the petitioners, highlighting the protection of individuals against unsubstantiated claims.

[case 1128]
The case of Yallappa vs The State Of Karnataka sheds light on critical issues surrounding child welfare laws, focusing on the judicial framework set forth in cases involving minors who face grave alleged abuses. The courts decision to maintain a harsh penalty for Yallappa serves both as a punishment for his actions and as a warning to others engaging in similar behaviors. This directive fosters an environment within the legal system where the safety of children remains paramount, asserting unequivocally that any infringement upon the rights of minors is unacceptable and will invoke serious consequences. This ruling not only upholds the principle of justice but enhances the protective measures afforded to child victims through legal mandates and societal obligations to prevent future occurrences of abuse.

[case 1129]
Gaurav Singh @ Gaurav vs State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Deptt. Of. .. on 24 February, 2025. Through thorough examination, the court finds that Gaurav Singh has been implicated in a serious case tied to several laws, including the POCSO Act. His defense rests predominantly on the argument of false implication and lack of evidence naming him directly in the FIR. The prosecutrixs testimonies support the applicant's claims, stressing no allegations were made against Gaurav himself. The High Court has sought to ensure that due process is maintained while analyzing Gaurav's continued detention, ultimately granting bail but imposing strict conditions to monitor his cooperation and presence in court. Gaurav is also required to promise not to seek adjournments, reflecting court's need for efficient proceedings.

[case 1130]
In Mahalakshmi vs The District Collector case, the minor J was reported to have been kidnapped and subjected to sexual assault, resulting in pregnancy. The case illustrates the legal framework surrounding the termination of pregnancies for minors as set out in the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, which acknowledges that a minor's pregnancy can only be terminated under certain conditions, including the necessity of obtaining consent from her guardian, which poses particular challenges when the minor does not have a competent guardian available. In this case, the uncle sought the termination of the pregnancy due to health risks highlighted by a medical professional. The Court thus weighed the importance of protecting the minor's health against the legal requirements for terminating a pregnancy.

[case 1131]
In the case of Dileep Kumar Yadav vs State of U. P. on 2 February 2021, the accused-applicant, involved in a serious criminal case under Sections 376(D), 506, 323 IPC and Section 3/4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, was denied bail initially. The victim's age was a contentious point, with the prosecution presenting evidence establishing the victim's age as under 17 years at the time of the incident. After reviewing the arguments and the circumstances surrounding the case, the court granted bail to the applicant under specific conditions, emphasizing the importance of the accused's rights and the presumption of innocence. The ruling highlighted necessary conditions, including the requirement for the accused to appear in court for all proceedings and restrictions on seeking adjournments.

[case 1132]
In the case of Gurmukh Singh vs State of Himachal Pradesh, the accused was charged under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, following an incident where he allegedly sexually assaulted a minor female. The court found sufficient evidence to convict him, leading to a sentence of seven years' rigorous imprisonment and a fine. The appeals against this judgment were dismissed due to strong corroborative testimonies from witnesses, including the victim, and the court's assertion that the presence of injuries was not necessary to establish the crime. The court emphasized the obligation to protect children from sexual offenses and highlighted the seriousness of such crimes against minors, stressing the need for justice in such matters.

[case 1133]
Ms. Eera's case against the State regarding the POCSO Act fundamentally challenges the current definitions surrounding 'child'intensifying discourse around judicial responsibility to consider both biological and mental capabilities when safeguarding rights. The Supreme Court reinforced that legislative protection must adapt to encompass vulnerable groups effectively and emphasized the need for an inclusive definition under the law. Throughout judicial assessments, the priority remains to ensure that proper procedures are established which respect the dignity and facilitate victim testimonies. These legal determinations amplify the urgency for reformed interpretations that align with the core purpose of the POCSO Act, which is aimed at providing the necessary protections against exploitation and abuse.

[case 1134]
Appellant No. 2-Shahnaz Bano stands convicted under Section 4(2)/17 of POCSO Act and sentenced to undergo 20 years' R. I. with fine of Rs. 2, 000/- and under Section 11/120B of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and sentenced to undergo 2 years' R. I with fine of Rs. 1, 000/-. Appellant No. 1-Shakeel Khan is the biological father of the prosecutrix who claimed to be 14 years old. She alleged that she was ill-treated by her stepmother, which led her to file a complaint after years of abuse. The court ultimately convicted the couple but granted bail to Shahnaz Bano after consideration of her incarceration time and the nature of the pending appeal.

[case 1135]
Sushila Raju Mane vs State Of Maharashtra And 2 Ors on 1 September, 2021. Heard Mr. Ashley Cusher, learned Counsel for the Petitioner and Ms. P. H. Kantharia, learned Government Pleader for the Respondent-State. Petitioner is the mother of minor victim girl who is alleged to have suffered rape which is relatable to FIR No. 0213 of 2021. The pregnancy is now stated to be in its 23rd week. After the medical board's recommendation, the court grants permission for medical termination of pregnancy under specific conditions. Furthermore, the petitioner requested for compensation under the Manodhairya Scheme, which aims at rehabilitating victims of sexual assault. The court directed that the District Legal Services Authority process the compensation request expeditiously and ensure legal assistance for the victim.

[case 1136]
The further argument of the learned Counsel for the appellant/accused, regarding the discrepancy in the manner of registration of the First Information Report is concerned, it can be seen from the evidence of P. W. 1 that she had confronted the mother of the appellant/accused initially and then taken up with the other villagers and finally the complaint was lodged. Considering the nature and background of the parties and the fact that the parents of the victim/child were also not with the child and the child was under the care of his grand-mother, the delay in lodging a complaint is clearly explained and in any event, I am of the view that the same has not caused any prejudice to the appellant/accused especially when he is the sole accused and was a known person and there is no any quarrel over identity.

[case 1137]
Balasubramani vs State Rep By on 16 June, 2017. .. The victim child called the childline on 17. 09. 2013 by dialing 1098. Tmt. Mailambigai (P. W. 7), working in District child Protection Unit, Namakkal, attended the call and enquired the child victim (P. W. 1). The victim narrated all the incidents to her and sought for help. P. W. 7 informed the same to Child Welfare Committee and met P. W. 1 in person. Tmt. M. Vijayalakshmi (P. W. 10), a team member of Childline, Namakkal, accompanied P. W. 7. Both of them took P. W. 1 with them and on the same day Tmt. P. Vijayalakshmi (P. W. 9), Counsellor, Child Protection Unit, Namakkal, counselled P. W. 1, and on the next day, i. e. , 18. 09. 2013, P. W. 7 and P. W. 10 took P. W. 1 to Komarapalayam Police Station, where P. W. 1 lodged a written complaint (Ex. P. 1) with the police against her father.

[case 1138]
Fir No. 148/13: State vs Sunil @ Machhar: Ps Ashok Vihar Dod: .. . on 8 May, 2015
State Vs. Sunil @ Machhar
FIR No. : 148/13
U/s: 377 IPC & 4 of POCSO Act
The facts of the case as born out from the record are that in the night intervening 17/18th May 2013, at about 12. 00 am, child victim D, aged about 12 years and his brother Bhola went to Police Station Ashok Vihar reporting penetrative sexual assault committed upon child victim D (hereinafter referred to as child victim) by the accused in the night of 16. 05. 2013. The matter in the police station was assigned to SI Surender Singh (hereinafter referred to as IO). .. The child victim has been examined as PW-5, whereas his elder brother Bhola has been examined as PW-7. .. and the medical evidence is also consistent with the evidence of child victim. ..

[case 1139]
Gaurav Singh @ Gaurav vs State Of U. P. Thru. Prin. Secy. Deptt. Of. .. on 24 February, 2025. The defendant, Gaurav Singh, is faced with serious allegations which include violations under the POCSO Act. As a part of the bail hearing, the court details the conditions set forth to ensure accountability. There is a notable absence of any straightforward charges against Gaurav in the FIR according to his defense, with the prosecutrix affirming that she did not level allegations against him. The court's decision to grant bail is influenced by Gaurav's cooperation, absence of prior convictions, and commitment to fulfilling all court-requested conditions. This offers insight into how the legal system protects the interests of alleged offenders while safeguarding the rights of victims during the legal process.

[case 1140]
The ruling in X Juvenile's case demonstrates how the practical application of Section 12 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act brings focus to the rights of minors in the court system. The court noted that not only must the individual circumstances of the juvenile be established, but also reliable assurance that the juvenile would not be endangered if released. The court view was that without concrete evidence indicating that releasing the juvenile would subject him to criminal associations or harm, the intrinsic right of every child to the presumption of innocence and the benefits of rehabilitation must guide the decision to grant bailor deny it. This reflects an overarching commitment to ensuring justice while nurturing the potential for a troubled youth's return to society.

[case 1141]
By the instant appeal, the appellant Chander Singh challenges the impugned judgment dated 17th December, 2013 whereby he has been convicted for the offence defined under Section 9(k), punishable under Section 10 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2002 (in short the POCSO Act) in FIR No. 80/2013 registered at PS Mangol Puri and the order on sentence dated 18th December, 2013 directing him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six years and fine of `5, 000/- in default whereof to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of three months. The prosecution case in brief is that on February 09, 2013, the victim attempted to communicate her experience of assault to her mother using sign language, after returning home in a distressed state.

[case 1142]
In the case of S. Amutha vs C. Manivanna Bhupathy dated 2 February, 2007, the Madras High Court addressed critical legal topics related to child testimony in the context of parental divorce. The minor child, Aravind, had been summoned to testify against his mother by his father amidst a custody dispute. The mothers objection led to the court analyzing whether a child could competently provide evidence. The trial court dismissed her claims, stating that under the law, children could testify as long as they understand the proceedings, a ruling that raises significant questions about child protection and judicial responsibility in family law. This ruling highlights the balance courts must maintain between verifying the competency of minor witnesses and the overarching goal of supporting child well-being.

[case 1143]
In the case of State vs. Hitesh, the court emphasized the legal complexities surrounding cases involving minors, particularly regarding consent. The prosecution's failure to establish the victim's age was critical in this decision, as the law guards minors from exploitation. The High Court of Delhi underscored that while the statutory age of consent is vital, it is equally important to consider the context, maturity, and nature of relationships involving minors. The acquittal hinged on the lack of definitive proof regarding the age of the victim and her own statements about consenting to the relationship, which complicated the application of the POCSO Act. The court insisted upon rigorous standards for evidence, affirming that a minors consent cannot be misinterpreted to undermine legal protections.

[case 1144]
A 19-year-old named Rakesh faces charges under Section 376(2)(n) of the IPC, Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, and Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. The prosecution alleges that Rakesh had sexual intercourse with a girl, who was 17 years and 10 months old at the time. After she turned 18, Rakesh sought to get married, and the court granted interim bail to facilitate their marriage, considering the couple's wish to settle their lives together. Despite serious allegations related to child marriage and sexual offences, the court noted that the continuance of trials might lead to injustice, especially for the victim. This scenario raises questions about legal remedies in cases involving minors and the complexities of the law surrounding their protection.

[case 1145]
Fr. Robin Mathew vs State Of Kerala on 28 June, 2017 The petitioner herein stands indicted as the first accused in Crime No. 152/2017 of Kelakam Police Station for offences punishable under sections 376(2)(f)(n), 370, 201, 166(A), 118, 119, 506 (i), 120(B) read with section 34 IPC and section 5 (J) (ii) (1) (P) read with section 6, 8, 9(f) read with section 10, 16 read with section 17, section 19(1) read with section 21 (1) of POCSO Act and section 32 (1) read with sections 34, 75 & 80 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. The ongoing investigation reveals that the victim, having been coerced into implicating her father initially, illustrates the pressures that child victims face, subsequently necessitating judicial measures to ensure she can testify freely and safely during the trial.

[case 1146]
The Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI) has highlighted significant issues regarding the legal framework of the Preconception and Prenatal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act, particularly sections related to punitive measures for clerical errors. The Federation argues that the Acts current application leads to unreasonable punishments for clerical errors found within medical record-keeping, causing undue harassment and mental distress for medical practitioners even when they are operating without malice or intent to harm. This leads to fears that such regulations could be deemed unconstitutional as they disrupt the balance between enforcing laws against serious offences like female foeticide and punishing individuals for inadvertent errors.

[case 1147]
The above appeals arise from S. C. No. 135 of 2014 on the files of the Additional District and Sessions Court, Ernakulam. There were five accused in the case. Accused 1, 2 and 5 among them, are the appellants in the appeals. Accused 3 and 4 in the case were though convicted and sentenced under Section 354 IPC, they have not preferred any appeal challenging their conviction and sentence in the case. Among the appellants, the first accused stands convicted and sentenced under Section 376(1) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the second accused stands convicted and sentenced under Section 109 read with Sections 354 and 376(1) IPC as also under Section 23 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 and the fifth accused stands convicted and sentenced under Sections 354 and 376(1) IPC.

[case 1148]
Under Section 19(1) of the Act it was the obligation on both the respondents herein and also the school Authorities to report the offence to the Special Juvenile Police Unit or the local Police. The said provision reads thus: '19. Reporting of offences - (1) Not withstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), any person (including the child), who has apprehension that an offence under this Act is likely to be committed or has knowledge that such an offence has been committed, he shall provide such information to, - (a) the Special Juvenile Police Unit; or (b) the local police. ' For the failure on the part of the respondents, now they are answerable for the punishment under Section 21 of the Act which reads thus: 'Punishment for failure to report or record a case. '

[case 1149]
A 11-year-old girl named X is the victim of a child rape case, filed against the accused Kathiresan who was convicted under Sections 366 and 376(1) of IPC. X went missing after leaving for school and was later found in Tiruppur after being sexually exploited by the accused over a period of 50 days. The trial court sentenced the accused to rigorous imprisonment for the charges. Key witnesses included X's parents and medical professionals who provided evidence of her age and the abuse she suffered. The accused appealed against the conviction. The Honorable Justice highlighted the necessity for courts to follow child protection guidelines and emphasized the importance of a child's testimony in such cases, affirming that the evidence of a child, even if solitary, could support a conviction if credible.

[case 1150]
Shri. Balu S/O Bhairu Balnaik @ Bhainaik vs The State Of Karnataka on 13 August, 2020. This criminal petition is filed under Section 439 of the Cr. P. C. , praying that the petitioner may kindly be enlarged on regular bail in C. C. No. 103/2020. The petitioner's wife has been granted bail, which raised a question of parity. The incident involves serious accusations including kidnapping and attempted murder of a child. The court is presented with the alleged delay in filing the complaint, absence of injuries corroborated by medical examination, and the implications surrounding the character of the accused. Considering the request for bail, the court has to weigh various factors including the nature and gravity of the accusations, the presumption of innocence, and potential threats to prosecution witnesses.

[case 1151]
Fr. Robin Mathew vs State Of Kerala on 28 June, 2017 The petitioner herein stands indicted as the first accused in Crime No. 152/2017 of Kelakam Police Station for offences punishable under sections 376(2)(f)(n), 370, 201, 166(A), 118, 119, 506 (i), 120(B) read with section 34 IPC and section 5 (J) (ii) (1) (P) read with section 6, 8, 9(f) read with section 10, 16 read with section 17, section 19(1) read with section 21 (1) of POCSO Act and section 32 (1) read with sections 34, 75 & 80 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. The complexities of the case arise from the victim's attempts to protect the alleged abuser and the ensuing judicial inquiries, leading to a delicate balance required by the courts in allowing fair trial rights while also ensuring the child's safety and well-being.

[case 1152]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT PATNA CRIMINAL MISCELLANEOUS No. 78541 of 2024 Arising Out of PS. Case No. -63 Year-2024 Thana- Cyber P. S. District- Sitamarhi Sidhant Kumar S/O Kumar Shankar Resident Of Village - Bahera Jahidpur, P. S -Nanpur, District Sitamarhi. .. Petitioner/s Versus 1. The State of Bihar 2. Birendra Kumar Singh, Addl. S. H. O, Cyber Police Station, Dist. - Sitamarhi. Bihar. .. Appearance: For the Petitioner/s: Mr. Ashhar Mustafa, Advocate Ms. Anita Kumari, Advocate For the Opposite Party/s: Mr. Jitendra Kumar Singh, APP. .. CORAM: HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE ASHOK KUMAR PANDEY ORAL ORDER 3 27-01-2025 Heard learned counsel for the petitioner. .. The petitioner has prayed for regular bail. .. The case of the prosecution is that sexual exploitation and child pornography is involved. ..

[case 1153]
Imran Shamim Khan vs The State Of Maharashtra on 22 January, 2019. The appellant herein is convicted for the offence punishable under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and is sentenced to suffer R. I. for 10 years and to pay fine of Rs. 2000/- in default to suffer S. I. for 15 days. The case arose from allegations made by a victim, a minor, concerning sexual assault by a neighbor. The subsequent investigation process revealed familial influences attempting to suppress the matter. The court underlined the important provisions of the POCSO Act, which mandated that child welfare must be prioritized and emphasized the societal obligations to protect minors at risk and bring light to offenses against children, irrespective of familial pressures on witness testimonies.

[case 1154]
Mangesh S/O Damodhar Chandankhede vs The State Of Maharashtra, Thr. P. S. O. .. . on 22 December, 2017. The appellant is aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 23. 02. 2015 in Special Child Protection Case 27/2013, delivered by Additional Sessions Judge-1, Nagpur, by and under which, the appellant is convicted of offence punishable under section 376(2)(i) of the Indian Penal Code ('IPC' for short) and under section 3 read with section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ('POCSO' for short) and is sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to payment of fine of Rs. 15, 000/-. The accused is further convicted of offence punishable under section 448 of the IPC and is sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for three months and to payment of fine of Rs. 500/-. ..

[case 1155]
Mr. Nissar Ahmed vs State Of Karnataka on 24 February, 2025 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 24TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2025 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MRS JUSTICE M G UMA WRIT PETITION NO. 7925 OF 2021 The petitioners assert that the legal proceedings initiated against them are arbitrary and unjust, highlighting prior cases where similar allegations were quashed by the court due to lack of evidence. The Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights raised serious concerns regarding the management's behavior towards students, leading to an investigation and further complaints. The petitioners contend that these claims are unfounded and challenge the legal basis of the FIR filed against them. This situation raises questions about the burden of proof in child rights cases.

[case 1156]
Rajeshkumar vs State Of Kerala on 27 May, 2021. The petitioner herein is the sole accused in SC. No. 758 of 2014 of I Additional District and Sessions Court, Kollam, who stands convicted for offences punishable under Sections 3(a) read with 4, 5(1), (m) read with 6 of POCSO Act to undergo RI for 10 years each and to pay fine of RS. 25, 000/- (Rupees twenty five thousand only) each for the offences proved against him. The crux of the allegation of the prosecution is that, the petitioner herein, who is the neighbour of the victim had sexually abused her by pressing his private part against her private part on various days some time prior to 2013. Pursuant to the complaint lodged, crime was registered and after trial, the accused was found guilty and sentenced. He is undergoing sentence since 11. 04. 2018.

[case 1157]
Throughout the legal discourse surrounding the case of Veer Singh Alias Veeru, several pivotal arguments are formed on the basis of the delay in lodging the FIR and allegations of sexual misconduct under the POCSO Act. The applicant asserts that the prosecutrix's actions lack merit due to the extensive gap in reporting and emphasizes his innocence based on the history of their relationship. He cites various judicial precedents to support his arguments revolving around the implications of consent and promissory relationships in drawing lines around areas of criminal prosecution. The court must evaluate these assertions against the backdrop of the existing child protection laws and ensure that any interpretations align with the safeguarding measures established to protect minors in similar contexts.

[case 1158]
BEFORE THE MADURAI BENCH OF MADRAS HIGH COURT Dated: 12. 06. 2018 CORAM THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE C. T. SELVAM AND THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE A. M. BASHEER AHAMED R. T. (MD) No. 2 of 2017 Mari. .. Accused Vs. State of Tamil Nadu, In the case of Cr. No. 71 of 2013, Rameswaram Temple Police Station, Ramanathapuram District. Through State Public Prosecutor. .. Reference under Section 366 of the Code of Criminal Procedure seeking confirmation of the death sentence imposed on the accused on 03. 11. 2017 in Special S. C. No. 2 of 2017 by the Fast Track Mahila Court, Ramanathapuram. .. . The prosecution case is that appellant, his wife and their children resided at Rameswaram. .. . The accused was arrested and eventually sentenced to death. This court is now hearing the appeal regarding the confirmation of this sentence.

[case 1159]
The implications of the legal proceedings in Yallappa vs The State Of Karnataka highlight the need for thorough investigatory processes and a strong emphasis on victim rights in the judicial context. Following the assessment of evidence that led to the conviction, there exists a recognition that every case of child abuse necessitates a comprehensive understanding and support approach aligned with legal mandates under the relevant child protection laws. The outcome of this case serves to fortify legal frameworks surrounding child abuse, showcasing the judiciary's commitment to ensuring justice while providing mechanisms for victim support and entitlement to necessary compensations. This will influence a far-reaching reform effect pertaining to future cases of child abuse and established protocols.

[case 1160]
Kerala High Court, Subramanyan vs State Of Kerala on 11 March, 2020. This appeal is directed against the conviction of the appellant and the sentence imposed on him in S. C. No. 141 of 2017. The accusation in the case is that the accused, who is the stepfather of the victim girl aged 11 years, has committed rape and penetrative sexual assault on her twice. The trial court found the accused guilty of various offenses under the IPC and the POCSO Act, sentencing him to rigorous imprisonment and a fine. The evidence included testimonies from the victim and several witnesses, leading to this conviction. The appellant contested the trial court's judgment, claiming the evidence was inconsistent. However, the court found that the prosecution had established the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt.

[case 1161]
Ashok Ramchandra Shewale vs The State Of Maharashtra on 30 March, 2021. On 19th April 2019, a mother lodged a complaint at N. M. Joshi Marg Police Station about sexual assault on her 13-year-old special child. The applicant, who resides in the same building, was alleged to have sexually abused the child during a bathroom visit on 17th April 2019. The victim testified that the applicant kissed her and touched her inappropriately while threatening her. Medical examination revealed multiple old healed hymenal tears. The FIR comprised charges under the POCSO Act and later, Section 376 of the IPC was added. However, under Section 375 of the IPC, there's a lack of direct evidence of penetration which could complicate the case. The applicant's bail application was granted based on these considerations.

[case 1162]
Crime No. 229/19 Of Melparamba Police. .. vs By Advs on 22 July, 2020. IN THE HIGH COURT OF KERALA AT ERNAKULAM. THIS BAIL APPLICATION filed under Section 438 of Criminal Procedure Code was heard through Video Conference. The petitioner is the accused in Crime No. 229 of 2019 of Melparamba Police Station. The above case is registered against the petitioner alleging offences punishable under Section 377 IPC and under Section 4 read with Section 3(c) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act). The prosecution case is that in between June 2007 and April 2019, the petitioner had abused a juvenile, aged 14 years, a resident of Yathemkhana, by committing unnatural offences while the petitioner was working as a teacher of that Yatheemkhana. .. This Bail Application is dismissed.

[case 1163]
Fr. Robin Mathew vs State Of Kerala on 28 June, 2017 The petitioner herein stands indicted as the first accused in Crime No. 152/2017 of Kelakam Police Station for offences punishable under sections 376(2)(f)(n), 370, 201, 166(A), 118, 119, 506 (i), 120(B) read with section 34 IPC and section 5 (J) (ii) (1) (P) read with section 6, 8, 9(f) read with section 10, 16 read with section 17, section 19(1) read with section 21 (1) of POCSO Act and section 32 (1) read with sections 34, 75 & 80 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. The prosecutions detailed accusations suggest a systematic abuse of the victim by a trusted authority. The victim's initial accounts of abuse raise concerns regarding the integrity of her testimony, prompting judicial apprehension about the accused's influence.

[case 1164]
In the case of Abhishek. K. A @ Bhanu vs State Of Kerala on 9 September 2020, it was determined that the victim boy, aged 11, was subjected to serious sexual offenses, including being shown obscene pictures and being sexually assaulted. The accused was found guilty of offenses under Sections 5(l), 5(m) read with Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act) and was sentenced accordingly. The court emphasized the importance of proper legal representation for child victims and the necessity of a child-friendly environment during proceedings, along with the implementation of a victim compensation scheme mandated for child victims in such cases. This highlights the judicial approach towards ensuring the protection and rights of child victims in sexual abuse cases.

[case 1165]
The arbitration model applied in the case of Arul Daniel vs Suganya and subsequent analysis by the Madras High Court suggests a suitable pathway for ensuring the victims under the Domestic Violence Act have adequate legal recourse. The High Court emphasized the importance of procedural accuracy, indicating that remedies for grievances under the D. V. Act must adhere strictly to the framework set forth by the act itself and the Cr. P. C. Insights from various judicial opinions presented in this case highlighted a more robust understanding of domestic violence laws and the significant role of the judiciary in ensuring victim rights are protected. The court maintained that the emphasis must always be on civil reliefs instead of penal solutions when addressing the applications made under the D. V. Act.

[case 1166]
The case of Manu Sharma vs State Of U. P. highlights the serious consequences of sexual assault on minors under the POCSO Act. The applicant, Manu Sharma, sought quashing of the charges against him, asserting that the relationship with the victim was consensual. However, the opposition argued that the victim was a minor at the time of the alleged crimes. This case brought forth questions about consent, the definition of a minor, and the legal protections provided to children under Indian law. The Court, while recognizing the inherent power under Section 482 of the Cr. P. C. , reaffirmed that charges concerning sexual offences against minors cannot be dismissed lightly, underlining the importance of the victim's statement, the age factor, and the need for judicial scrutiny in such sensitive matters.

[case 1167]
The case of the prosecution is that the accused was working as a school teacher in a rural area school where the victim children / PW. 3 to PW. 5 were also studying. Even two years prior to the date of complaint, the accused was in the habit of causing sexual assault on the victim children by touching their shoulders, breasts and hips. On 29. 06. 2016, during lunch time, he sexually assaulted PW. 4 by touching her on the left breast. On 30. 06. 2016 at about 3. 20 p. m. , to 3. 30 p. m. , when PW. 2 was going to attend to nature call, the accused followed her and pulled her shawl with sexual intention and thus committed sexual assault on her. On 30. 06. 2016 at about 9. 30 a. m. , he assaulted PW. 3 by slapping her on her left cheek and back and committed the offence under Section 10 of the POCSO Act and 323 IPC.

[case 1168]
The learned counsel for the appellant submitted that there are absolutely no signs of penetrative sexual assault and at the best, the report only shows that there could have been a sexual assault. We are not in agreement with this submission made by the learned counsel for the appellant. The victim child has described the incident, when she deposed before the Court and she has specifically stated that the appellant had placed his penis over the vagina of the victim child. Section 3 of the POCSO Act explains penetrative sexual assault and Section 3(a) of the POCSO Act makes it clear that there is no requirement that the penis should have completely penetrated the vagina. Hence, sexual assault as described by the victim child clearly satisfies the requirement under Section 3(a) of the POCSO Act.

[case 1169]
This is a classic case of litigants abusing the process of law. The appellant filed a complaint against respondent No. 2 on 15. 07. 2013 at the Georai Police Station alleging that, from the year 2010, she was residing with her aunt for education. The son of the aunt, respondent no. 2 herein, was a teacher in Ashram School at Georai. It is alleged that, the accused had forcibly committed sexual intercourse with her and on doing so repeatedly, she became pregnant. On 25. 10. 2013, she delivered a girl child. The testimony of the appellant was recorded on 05. 06. 2018 before the Special Judge at Beed in Special (POCSO) Case No. 5 of 2017. The appellant stated in her testimony that she was having a love affair with the accused and both indulged in sexual intercourse by choice and out of their free will.

[case 1170]
In the aftermath of the conviction and the evaluation of the trial's execution, significant focus was placed on the treatment of child victims in legal settings. The judgment highlighted the fact that the psychological impact of sexual abuse often complicates a child's ability to narrate their experience in an environment that typically feels intimidating and overwhelming. The court indicated that adherence to child protection laws is imperative in creating a supportive atmosphere for young witnesses. It was stipulated that safeguards against exposure in open court were essential to both protect the victim's mental health and to ensure the integrity of the judicial process. Legally mandated protections aim to establish a compassionate approach to handling child witnesses across similar cases.

[case 1171]
Mr. Nissar Ahmed vs State Of Karnataka on 24 February, 2025 - IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BENGALURU DATED THIS THE 24TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2025 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MRS JUSTICE M G UMA WRIT PETITION NO. 7925 OF 2021 During the hearing, it became evident that allegations involving physical and mental harassment towards students at Presidency School led parents to file complaints with the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The petitioners, who are in authority positions within the school, have been accused of withholding results and engaging in an illegal act of intimidation against students. Given these allegations, the legal question arises about the role of educational bodies in ensuring student rights and what legal implications follow if these rights are violated.

[case 1172]
This Criminal appeal is filed by the de facto complainant against the judgment of acquittal dated 28. 03. 2019 passed in Spl. S. C. No. 27 of 2017 by the learned Sessions Judge, Magalir Needhimandram, Tiruvallur District. The first respondent police registered a case against the 3rd respondent/accused herein in Crime No. 5 of 2016 for the offence under Section 354 (A) of IPC and Sections 9 (f), 9(m), 9(k) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. After completing the investigation, they have filed a charge sheet before the learned Sessions Judge, Magalir Neethimandram since the offence is against a girl child. The case went to trial and numerous witnesses were examined. Ultimately, the accused was acquitted, which prompted the de facto complainant to appeal against the acquittal.

[case 1173]
Delhi District Court Fir No. 374/2014: State vs Pappu: Ps Subhash Place DOD: 10. 02. 2015. The case of the prosecution states that Smt. Madhu had come to reside with her two children. On 14. 04. 2014, the child victim N was taken away by accused Pappu, where aggravated sexual assault was committed upon her. The child disclosed details of the incident to her mother the next day. Police received a call, investigated, and upon gathering evidence arrested the accused. The prosecution presented evidence and witnesses, and the conviction of Pappu was made under sections of the IPC and POCSO Act. The court considered victims age, the nature of the crime and issued compensation for the victim through the legal channels, stressing on the importance of child welfare. The accused was sentenced accordingly.

[case 1174]
Dr. L Veena vs The State Of Karnataka on 29 August, 2017 This legal proceeding arose from allegations of sexual molestation of children at a preschool by a staff member and questions of negligence by the school's administration. The implicated individuals are petitioners contesting their culpability under various sections of child protection laws and penal codes as alleged by parents. The court is tasked with examining the validity of the accusation given that there seems to be a procedural hurdle regarding the initiation of cases against school personnel without proper complaints being lodged by a public servant as required by law. The legal arguments concern the balance between protecting children's rights and ensuring the accused parties' rights are preserved throughout judicial processes.

[case 1175]
In Raju Yallappa vs The State Of Karnataka, the implications of convictions under the SC/ST Act and the POCSO Act reveal multifaceted challenges within the Indian legal system regarding child sexual abuse cases. The appellant argued against the conviction based on alleged inconsistencies in witness testimonies and the legal interpretation of provisions surrounding marginalized communities. In this process, the court critically examined evidentiary requirements alongside protecting the rights of the child victim. This case ultimately affirms the judiciary's role in reinforcing statutes that shield minors from sexual violence and ensure just outcomes for wrongful acts committed against them, while also highlighting necessary reforms to address existing hurdles in the application of these laws.

[case 1176]
Nitin Singhal And Another vs State Of U. P. And Another on 12 January, 2018. The proceedings arise from serious allegations involving a minor victim who suffered from sexual abuse and exploitation by his tutor. The petitioners argued for dismissal of the case based on a settlement, but the court firmly stated that such grievous accusations fall outside the domain of simple disputes that can be settled privately. Utilizing precedents and established principles, the judgement firmly reinforced that heinous offenses involving minors under the POCSO Act must be prosecuted, reflecting a societal commitment to protecting children from such crimes. The court clearly outlined that the severity of the offense necessitated a thorough judicial inquiry, reaffirming public interest in deterring such acts.

[case 1177]
Sri X vs The State Of West Bengal And Others on 17 August, 2023
This decision by the Calcutta High Court illustrates a critical legal dilemma faced by minor victims of sexual violence. The court refuses to ignore the additional suffering a child might endure should she be forced to give birth, especially under traumatic circumstances. The invocation of Section 5 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act is particularly significant, as it allows for terminations necessary to save the life of the pregnant woman, which can be broadened to interpret the mental health implications that come with unwanted pregnancies resulting from assault. The judgment highlights a robust discussion on the rights afforded to the minor and how the judicial system must adapt to ensure these rights are protected.

[case 1178]
Abdulla Ainulhaq Ansari vs The State Of Maharashtra And Anr on 16 December, 2021. The appeal was filed against the conviction based on the testimony of the prosecutrix who reported her father's sexual abuse to the Child Welfare Committee. The Committee directed police to record her statement, illustrating the protection mechanism in place for minors under the POCSO Act. The law provides that the judicial system should prioritize children's rights, ensuring a child-friendly judicial process. This includes the direct involvement of child protection services in investigations and the requirement for medical examinations to substantiate claims of abuse. Additionally, evidence gathered from the victim is treated with particular care to ensure their mental well-being throughout the legal process.

[case 1179]
Abdulla Ainulhaq Ansari vs The State Of Maharashtra And Anr on 16 December, 2021. This appeal emphasizes how the appellate court critically analyses the judgments made in lower courts regarding child sexual abuse cases. Primarily, it examines whether the evidence provided by the prosecution was sufficient to support the conviction under the POCSO Act. Experienced judges reviewed if the legal requirements were satisfied during trials, particularly methods of gathering testimonies and evidence from the victim. Reflecting on the case, it signifies the importance of judicial oversight in retaining justice in cases involving child abuse and establishing the necessity for continual evaluation of how laws are practiced in the legal system to ensure children's safety and perpetrator accountability.

[case 1180]
HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD

? Neutral Citation No.
- 2025: AHC: 35435

Court No.
- 65

Case: - CRIMINAL MISC.
- 38451 of 2024

Applicant: - Sunny

Opposite Party: - State Of U. P.
And 3 Others

Counsel for Applicant: - Kumar Ashutosh Srivastava, Mohd.
Zeeshan, Nagendra Bahadur Singh, Surendra Mohan Mishra, Vishveshwar Mani Tripathi

Counsel for Opposite Party: - G. A. ,Riyajuddin Ansari

Hon'ble Krishan Pahal, J.
In relation to Case Crime No.
158 of 2024, where the applicant has submitted a bail application claiming false implications and of no prior criminal history, the court emphasizes that judgments cannot be made without thorough consideration of the evidence, especially in child abuse cases where victims may be vulnerable and require protection from further harm.

[case 1181]
In the case SPL. C/73/2014 on 31 March, 2015, Peenya Police, Bangalore City charged the accused Praveen Kumar for offences punishable under Sections 323, 363, 376, 504, 506 of I. P. C and Section 5(l) R/w Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The testimony revealed that the prosecutrix, aged 17, reported incidents of sexual intercourse occurring multiple times over a year, under the pretense of marriage. After an incident where the accused attempted to forcibly take her in a car, a complaint was lodged by her parents. However, during the trial, the prosecutrix denied the allegations of rape and claimed she was pressured by her parents to make false accusations. The court ultimately acquitted the accused due to lack of strong evidence and contradictory testimonies.

[case 1182]
In the case titled 'Jayantibhai Badabhai Dedun vs State Of Gujarat, ' the Gujarat High Court addressed an application to quash First Information Report No. I-22 of 2016, which was registered for offences under the Indian Penal Code's Sections 363 and 366, and Section 12 of the POCSO Act. The applicant's counsel presented an affidavit from the victim, Teena, indicating that she had given consent for the FIR to be quashed. The court acknowledged that Teena and the applicant were living together happily and had a child named Satyajitkumar. Given that the dispute was of a private nature and had evolved positively, the court decided to quash the FIR to prevent unnecessary harassment and abuse of legal process, recognizing the importance of securing justice by ceasing what it deemed a futile trial.

[case 1183]
Sivapirakasam vs / on 22 June, 2022 The accused Sivaprakasam was charged for several offences including under the POCSO Act. During the trial, the victim girl testified about the incident, corroborated by other witnesses, leading to his conviction. Despite challenges regarding the absence of medical evidence, the court determined that the victim's account was credible. Additional details from her family and witnesses supported the prosecution's case. The trial judge emphasized the importance of the victim's testimony, noting that consistency and reliability are critical in child abuse cases. The conviction was upheld on appeal, resulting in a confirmed sentence and reaffirmation of the protections under the POCSO Act, designed to shield children from sexual offences and ensure their safety.

[case 1184]
The victim is the daughter of Lieutenant Colonel. Vivek Singh Thakur and Major. Prashasti. The complaint against the Accused stated that the incident occurred when the child's parents were away, pointing to the importance of supervision in reducing the risk of child abuse. Medical examination proved critical in the investigation process. After the allegations were raised, appropriate actions taken by local law enforcement led to the registration of a case and further investigations. The trial process revealed inconsistencies in testimonies and evidence, ultimately leading to the conviction of the Accused. On appeal, however, the court raised concerns regarding the evidence presented and the reliability of witness testimonies, which heavily influenced the decision to overturn the conviction.

[case 1185]
Amarnath Tiwari vs State (Nct Of Delhi) on 24 January, 2022. .. The prosecution evidence began on 01. 05. 2015, when PW1 to PW5 were summoned. On the said day, apparently a strike call was given by the Bar, as urged on behalf of the appellant, and for that reason, a counsel appointed by the Bar had represented the appellant and cross-examined PW4 and PW5, instead of his privately engaged counsel. PW6 to PW8 were examined on the next day, when cross-examination of PW7 was also conducted by the learned counsel appointed by the Bar. Subsequently, on 05. 05. 2015, PW9 to PW11 were examined, when the appellant was again represented by the learned counsel appointed by the Bar. This Court is constrained to note that the present case being one where the accused/appellant was facing a serious charge. ..

[case 1186]
Harichandra Sopanbhai Part vs State Of Gujarat on 22 March, 2021. In the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad R/SPECIAL CRIMINAL APPLICATION NO. 181 of 2021. The petitioner prayed for reliefs including the quashing of an FIR filed against him due to a previously resolved dispute related to an alleged offense. The discussion included the petitioner and the complainant's daughter being in a relationship and that they intended to marry. The complainant and victim expressed that they do not wish to pursue the case following the marriage on 18/03/2021, supported by evidence. The prosecution opposed this based on the serious nature of the offense involving the victim's age (16 years). Nonetheless, the court determined that continuing the case would be an abuse of legal process and quashed the FIR.

[case 1187]
In the reference of the case Arul Daniel vs Suganya, the Supreme Court dealt with the conflicting interpretations surrounding the Domestic Violence Act concerning the legal pathways available for victims seeking redress against domestic violence. This included an intricate analysis of whether judicial proceedings initiated under the D. V. Act could be dismissed or challenged using provisions within the Cr. P. C. The decision underscored that while the reliefs sought under the D. V. Act are civil in nature, the framework required to address these issues must be adhered to diligently by ensuring the rights of victims are respected. The court established that victims retain rights to pursue civil remedies, with the legislative intention prioritizing victim protection over procedural complexities.

[case 1188]
Rakesh Charandas Lonbale (In Jail) vs The State Of Maha. , Thr. P. S. O. , P. S. .. . on 7 June, 2017
In this case, the conviction of Rakesh Charandas Lonbale under severe charges signified profound implications regarding the legal context of protecting child victims like 'K'. The investigative process involved medical examinations and multiple witness testimonies that contributed to the charges laid. However, the appeal questioned the sufficiency and coherence of the evidence presented, which reflects on the judicial processes that determine the states capacity to provide adequate legal protections for victimized children under the POCSO framework. The defense argued for potential inconsistencies in testimonies, emphasizing the importance of reliable evidence in convicting a suspected abuser.

[case 1189]
Shivlal vs The State Of Madhya Pradesh on 12 June, 2023. The High Court evaluates an application for bail under Section 439 of the Cr. P. C. regarding serious charges, including kidnapping and the sexual exploitation of a minor under the POCSO Act. The FIR brought by the prosecutrix, a 17-year-old, describes prolonged abuse and the emotional turmoil following betrayal by Devlal, who falsely promised marriage. The concern arises when threat allegations surface against Shivlal, implicating him indirectly. His request for bail reflects a guarantee of his presence during trial, sanctioned by judicial authority under certain conditions. It also reflects the courts assessment of the need for balance between the accused's rights and the sanctity of the prosecutrixs trauma and protection mandates.

[case 1190]
The case Ashok vs Public Health Department illustrates the legal mechanisms available for minors seeking to terminate pregnancies resulting from sexual abuse. The petitioner, a 17-year-old girl, filed for the termination of her pregnancy through a writ petition, emphasizing her right under the Constitution of India to live with dignity and liberty. The court emphasized the importance of medical evaluations by the committee, which supported the termination based on the mental health impacts of unwanted pregnancy due to rape. The passage outlines the procedures that need to be followed under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, highlighting the necessity of obtaining consent from guardians for minors, underlining the importance of safeguarding the rights and well-being of young victims.

[case 1191]
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA KALABURAGI BENCH DATED THIS THE 01ST DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2018 BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE G. NARENDAR CRIMINAL PETITION No. 200033/2018 Between: Yallaling S/o Shankerappa Mailari, Age: 35 years, Occ: Agriculture, R/o Martoor Village, Tq. Chittapur, Dist. Kalaburagi-585 228. .. . Petitioner (By Sri. Ustad Sadath Hussain, Advocate) And: The State Through Shahabad Town Police Station Tq. Chittapur, Dist. Kalaburagi Now Represented by Special Public Prosecutor, High Court of Karnataka Kalaburagi Bench-585 103. .. The gist of the complaint as lodged with the respondent-Police by the mother of the victim is that. .. upon enquiry she was informed that the petitioner-accused had come to the house at about 2: 00 p. m. in the afternoon and committed forcible rape upon her.

[case 1192]
In the ruling for Ashok vs Public Health Department, the importance of immediate medical intervention for minors who are victims of sexual abuse was highlighted. The petitioner sought to terminate her pregnancy due to the psychological and socio-economic implications of being a young survivor of a crime. The court recognized that mental health aspects are taken into account when assessing the need for termination under the provisions of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971. Two registered medical practitioners evaluated the case and agreed that the minor's mental health was significantly at risk and suggested termination. This ruling underscores the jurisdiction's approach towards protecting minors and responding to their unique circumstances in the realm of reproductive rights.

[case 1193]
Joseph Kevin Selvadoray's struggle against allegations under the POCSO Act amidst a contentious custody battle reveals how familial tensions can give rise to legal challenges that not only threaten parental rights but also impact the wellbeing of affected minors. The High Court's approach highlights the importance of ensuring justice is not only done but perceived to be done in cases involving serious accusations. With ongoing debates surrounding custody and visitation, the judicial system faces the dual challenge of protecting vulnerable children from real harm while minimizing potential wrongful implications for parents involved in protracted disputes. The High Court's rulings underscore the necessity of a detailed investigation into the facts before any legal repercussions are enacted.

[case 1194]
Rakesh Charandas Lonbale (In Jail) vs The State Of Maha. , Thr. P. S. O. , P. S. .. . on 7 June, 2017
The present appeal is directed against the judgment and order of conviction passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Chandrapur in Sessions Case No. 108/2003. The appellant is convicted under the IPC and POCSO Act, both providing a framework for the prosecution of offenses against children. The prosecutrix, referred to as 'K', lodged the FIR detailing her experience, which led to the trial. Testimonies were presented including medical examinations affirming her claims. The case against Rakesh Charandas Lonbale was constructed based on various evidences and testimonies, raising the issue of the reliability of such evidence in court and the implications for the victim's legal protections.

[case 1195]
In the case of Puran Lal @ Bhaskar vs State, the appellant was convicted under Section 376(1) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the POCSO Act for the penetrative sexual assault on a minor girl. The incident occurred on 17. 04. 2017, and the victim, a 13-year-old girl, initially reported the assault to her mother, who then contacted the police. The court highlighted the importance of the child's testimony and the corroborative evidence from her mother and a medical examination. The appellant was sentenced to seven years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine, which could lead to further imprisonment if not paid. The need for appropriate correctional programs for the appellant during his incarceration was also noted, emphasizing the importance of rehabilitation in preventing recidivism.

[case 1196]
The ruling in the case of S. Amutha vs C. Manivanna Bhupathy dated 2 February 2007 by the Madras High Court revealed substantial issues surrounding child witnesses. The father in this case attempted to present his minor son, Aravind, to testify against his mother in divorce proceedings, raising concerns about the psychological pressure imposed on the child. The trial court's decision to dismiss the mothers request against the child's testimony highlighted the complex interplay between children's rights to express their preferences and the risks of influenced testimony given their vulnerable age. The ruling emphasized the necessity of safeguarding the childs interests and confirmed that the child's testimony should only be assessed when it doesn't interfere with their emotional integrity.

[case 1197]
Vinod Kumar @ Sheshnath vs State Nct Of Delhi on 24 August, 2015. The case highlights how the judicial system addressed the serious charges against Vinod Kumar regarding the sexual abuse of his daughter 'X', underscoring the meticulous process of gathering and validating evidence. Statements from both the victim and her mother played crucial roles in substantiating the allegations, while the lack of credible defenses offered by the accused led to his conviction under the POCSO Act. This outcome reflects not only legal accountability but also sets a precedence for prioritizing child welfare and safety in cases of sexual offenses. The importance of these proceedings is deeply rooted in the responsibilities law enforcement and the judiciary have toward the protection of children from abuse.

[case 1198]
The legal proceedings in State Of Karnataka vs Sri Brahmadeva illustrated the shortcomings in addressing sexual abuse allegations when dealing with minor victims. The victim's report of sexual abuse by her Physical Training Teacher was complicated by delays in reporting, leading to an acquittal based on insufficient evidence and witness challenges. The trial court acquitted the accused primarily on the basis that the victim's testimony was not corroborated and that key witnesses failed to support her claims. The judgment emphasizes the need for a robust framework for child protection laws that comprehensively covers the processes following allegations of abuse, ensuring timely interventions and appropriate legal action while mitigating the emotional impact on the young victims involved.

[case 1199]
Abdulla Ainulhaq Ansari vs The State Of Maharashtra And Anr on 16 December, 2021. The judgment in this case reflects the importance of corroborative evidence in convictions concerning sexual abuse of minors. The passage outlines that despite the accusatory statements made by the victim, the lack of consistent evidence raised doubts regarding the credibility of the testimonies. While the POCSO provisions allow for a conviction based on the sole testimony of a victim, the appellate court observed that without clear corroboration, the testimonies become less reliable. The ramifications of this case underscore the need for robust evidence collection and verification methodologies in handling cases under the POCSO Act, where the integrity of victim testimony can make or break a prosecution.

[case 1200]
State vs. Lakhan S/O Sh. Rameshwar Dayal on 10 June, 2016. FIR No. : 436/2013. Under Sections: 323/354-B IPC & 8 POCSO Act. Brief facts of the prosecution case are that on receipt of DD No. 18-A, regarding molestation of a girl by a drunkard at 60' Road, Bhagwan Pur Khera, SI Ashwani Ambariya along with Ct. Sulekh reached at the informed place where he met the complainant/victim girl, aged 13 years who stated that accused Lakhan caught hold of her hand and slapped her. On this basis, an FIR was registered, and Lakhan was arrested. At trial, both material witnesses, the prosecutrix and her mother, turned hostile and did not support the prosecution case, claiming misunderstanding. The court ultimately acquitted the accused citing the prosecutions failure to prove its case against him.
